11.3: Use Automated Tools to Verify Standard Device

Overview
For increased security, regenerate storage account access keys periodically.

Why This Matters
When a storage account is created, Azure generates two 512-bit storage access keys 
which are used for authentication when the storage account is accessed. Rotating these 
keys periodically ensures that any inadvertent access or exposure does not result from 
the compromise of these keys. 
Cryptographic key rotation periods will vary depending on your organization's security 
requirements and the type of data which is being stored in the Storage Account. For 
example, PCI DSS mandates that cryptographic keys be replaced or rotated 'regularly,' 
and advises that keys for static data stores be rotated every 'few months.' 
For the purposes of this recommendation, 90 days will be prescribed for the reminder. 
Review and adjustment of the 90 day period is recommended, and may even be 
necessary. Your organization's security requirements should dictate the appropriate 
setting.

Audit Steps
Audit from Azure Portal 
1. Go to Storage Accounts. 
2. For each Storage Account, under Security + networking, go to Access keys. 
3. Review the date and days in the Last rotated field for each key. 
If the Last rotated field indicates a number or days greater than 90 [or greater than 
your organization's period of validity], the key should be rotated. 

Audit from Azure CLI 
1. Get a list of storage accounts 
az storage account list --subscription <subscription-id> 
Make a note of id, name and resourceGroup. 
2. For every storage account make sure that key is regenerated in the past 90 days. 
az monitor activity-log list --namespace Microsoft.Storage --offset 90d --
query "[?contains(authorization.action, 'regenerateKey')]" --resource-id 
<resource id> 
The output should contain 
"authorization"/"scope": <your_storage_account> AND "authorization"/"action": 
"Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/regeneratekey/action" AND 
"status"/"localizedValue": "Succeeded" "status"/"Value": "Succeeded" 
Audit from Azure Policy 
If referencing a digital copy of this Benchmark, clicking a Policy ID will open a link to the 
associated Policy definition in Azure. 
If referencing a printed copy, you can search Policy IDs from this URL: 
https://portal.azure.com/#view/Microsoft_Azure_Policy/PolicyMenuBlade/~/Definitions 
• 
Policy ID: 044985bb-afe1-42cd-8a36-9d5d42424537 - Name: 'Storage account 
keys should not be expired'

Remediation
Remediate from Azure Portal 
1. Go to Storage Accounts. 
2. For each Storage Account with outdated keys, under Security + networking, 
go to Access keys. 
3. Click Rotate key next to the outdated key, then click Yes to the prompt 
confirming that you want to regenerate the access key. 
After Azure regenerates the Access Key, you can confirm that Access keys reflects a 
Last rotated date of (0 days ago).

Key Takeaways
- When a storage account is created, Azure generates two 512-bit storage access keys  which are used for authentication when the storage account is accessed.
- Rotating these  keys periodically ensures that any inadvertent access or exposure does not result from  the compromise of these keys.
- Cryptographic key rotation periods will vary depending on your organization's security  requirements and the type of data which is being stored in the Storage Account.
