12.4: Deny Communication over Unauthorized Ports

Overview
A Conditional Access policy can be enabled to ensure that users are required to use 
Multifactor Authentication (MFA) to login. 
Note: Since 2024, Azure has been rolling out mandatory multifactor authentication. For 
more information: 
• 
https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/blog/announcing-mandatory-multi-factorauthentication-for-azure-sign-in 
• 
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/identity/authentication/conceptmandatory-multifactor-authentication

Why This Matters
Multifactor authentication is strongly recommended to increase the confidence that a 
claimed identity can be proven to be the subject of the identity. This results in a stronger 
authentication chain and reduced likelihood of exploitation.

Audit Steps
Audit from Azure Portal 
1. From Azure Home open the Portal Menu in the top left, and select Microsoft 
Entra ID. 
2. Scroll down in the menu on the left, and select Security. 
3. Select on the left side Conditional Access. 
4. Select Policies. 
5. Select the policy you wish to audit. 
6. Click the blue text under Users. 
7. Under Include ensure that All Users is specified. 
8. Under Exclude ensure that no users or groups are specified. If there are users or 
groups specified for exclusion, a very strong justification should exist for each 
exception, and all excepted account-level objects should be recorded in 
documentation along with the justification for comparison in future audits.

Remediation
Remediate from Azure Portal 
1. From Azure Home open Portal menu in the top left, and select Microsoft Entra 
ID. 
2. Select Security. 
3. Select Conditional Access. 
4. Select Policies. 
5. Click + New policy. 
6. Enter a name for the policy. 
7. Click the blue text under Users. 
8. Under Include, select All users. 
9. Under Exclude, check Users and groups. 
10. Select users this policy should not apply to and click Select. 
11. Click the blue text under Target resources. 
12. Select All cloud apps. 
13. Click the blue text under Grant. 
14. Under Grant access, check Require multifactor authentication and click 
Select. 
15. Set Enable policy to Report-only. 
16. Click Create. 
After testing the policy in report-only mode, update the Enable policy setting from 
Report-only to On.

Key Takeaways
- Multifactor authentication is strongly recommended to increase the confidence that a  claimed identity can be proven to be the subject of the identity.
- This results in a stronger  authentication chain and reduced likelihood of exploitation.
