4.5: Use Multifactor Authentication For All Administrative

Overview
This recommendation ensures that users accessing Microsoft Admin Portals (i.e. 
Microsoft 365 Admin, Microsoft 365 Defender, Exchange Admin Center, Azure Portal, 
etc.) are required to use multi-factor authentication (MFA) credentials when logging into 
an Admin Portal.

Why This Matters
Administrative Portals for Microsoft Azure should be secured with a higher level of 
scrutiny to authenticating mechanisms. Enabling multi-factor authentication is 
recommended to reduce the potential for abuse of Administrative actions, and to 
prevent intruders or compromised admin credentials from changing administrative 
settings. 
IMPORTANT: While this recommendation allows exceptions to specific Users or 
Groups, they should be very carefully tracked and reviewed for necessity on a regular 
interval through an Access Review process. It is important that this rule be built to 
include "All Users" to ensure that all users not specifically excepted will be required to 
use MFA to access Admin Portals.

Audit Steps
Audit from Azure Portal 
1. From the Azure Admin Portal dashboard, open Microsoft Entra ID. 
2. In the menu on the left of the Entra ID blade, click Security. 
3. In the menu on the left of the Security blade, click Conditional Access. 
4. In the menu on the left of the Conditional Access blade, click Policies. 
5. Click on the name of the policy you wish to audit. 
6. Click the blue text under Users. 
7. Under the Include section of Users, review Users and Groups to ensure that 
All Users is selected. 
8. Under the Exclude section of Users, review the Users and Groups that are 
excluded from the policy (NOTE: this should be limited to break-glass emergency 
access accounts, non-interactive service accounts, and other carefully 
considered exceptions). 
9. On the left side, click the blue text under Target Resources. 
10. Under the Include section of Target resources, ensure the Select apps radio 
button is selected. 
11. Under Select, ensure Microsoft Admin Portals is listed.

Remediation
Remediate from Azure Portal 
1. From the Azure Admin Portal dashboard, open Microsoft Entra ID. 
2. Click Security in the Entra ID blade. 
3. Click Conditional Access in the Security blade. 
4. Click Policies in the Conditional Access blade. 
5. Click + New policy. 
6. Enter a name for the policy. 
7. Click the blue text under Users. 
8. Under Include, select All users. 
9. Under Exclude, check Users and groups. 
10. Select users or groups to be exempted from this policy (e.g. break-glass 
emergency accounts, and non-interactive service accounts) then click the 
Select button. 
11. Click the blue text under Target resources. 
12. Under Include, click the Select apps radio button. 
13. Click the blue text under Select. 
14. Check the box next to Microsoft Admin Portals then click the Select button. 
15. Click the blue text under Grant. 
16. Under Grant access check the box for Require multifactor 
authentication then click the Select button. 
17. Before creating, set Enable policy to Report-only. 
18. Click Create. 
After testing the policy in report-only mode, update the Enable policy setting from 
Report-only to On.

Key Takeaways
- Administrative Portals for Microsoft Azure should be secured with a higher level of  scrutiny to authenticating mechanisms.
- Enabling multi-factor authentication is  recommended to reduce the potential for abuse of Administrative actions, and to  prevent intruders or compromised admin credentials from changing administrative  settings.
- IMPORTANT: While this recommendation allows exceptions to specific Users or  Groups, they should be very carefully tracked and reviewed for necessity on a regular  interval through an Access Review process.
