9.2: Ensure Only Approved Ports, Protocols and Services

Overview
Network Security Group Flow Logs should be enabled and the retention period set to 
greater than or equal to 90 days. 
Retirement Notice 
On September 30, 2027, network security group (NSG) flow logs will be retired. Starting 
June 30, 2025, it will no longer be possible to create new NSG flow logs. Azure 
recommends migrating to virtual network flow logs. Review 
https://azure.microsoft.com/en-gb/updates?id=Azure-NSG-flow-logs-Retirement for 
more information. 
For virtual network flow logs, consider applying the recommendation Ensure that 
virtual network flow log retention days is set to greater than or 
equal to 90 in this section.

Why This Matters
Flow logs enable capturing information about IP traffic flowing in and out of network 
security groups. Logs can be used to check for anomalies and give insight into 
suspected breaches.

Audit Steps
Audit from Azure Portal 
1. Go to Network Watcher 
2. Select NSG flow logs blade in the Logs section 
3. Select each Network Security Group from the list 
4. Ensure Status is set to On 
5. Ensure Retention (days) setting greater than 90 days Audit from Azure CLI 
az network watcher flow-log show --resource-group <resourceGroup> --nsg 
<NameorID of the NetworkSecurityGroup> --query 'retentionPolicy' 

Ensure that enabled is set to true and days is set to greater then or equal to 90. 

Audit from Azure Policy 
If referencing a digital copy of this Benchmark, clicking a Policy ID will open a link to the 
associated Policy definition in Azure. 
If referencing a printed copy, you can search Policy IDs from this URL: 
https://portal.azure.com/#view/Microsoft_Azure_Policy/PolicyMenuBlade/~/Definitions 
• 
Policy ID: 5e1cd26a-5090-4fdb-9d6a-84a90335e22d - Name: 'Configure 
network security groups to use specific workspace, storage account and flowlog 
retention policy for traffic analytics'

Remediation
Remediate from Azure Portal 
1. Go to Network Watcher 
2. Select NSG flow logs blade in the Logs section 
3. Select each Network Security Group from the list 
4. Ensure Status is set to On 
5. Ensure Retention (days) setting greater than 90 days 
6. Select your storage account in the Storage account field 
7. Select Save 
Remediate from Azure CLI 
Enable the NSG flow logs and set the Retention (days) to greater than or equal to 90 
days. 
az network watcher flow-log configure --nsg <NameorID of the Network Security 
Group> --enabled true --resource-group <resourceGroupName> --retention 91 --
storage-account <NameorID of the storage account to save flow logs>

Key Takeaways
- Flow logs enable capturing information about IP traffic flowing in and out of network  security groups.
- Logs can be used to check for anomalies and give insight into  suspected breaches.
