14.4: Encrypt All Sensitive Information in Transit (and related controls)

Overview
To ensure centralized identity and access management, users and groups from 
Microsoft Entra ID should be synchronized with Azure Databricks. This is achieved 
through SCIM provisioning, which automates the creation, update, and deactivation of 
users and groups in Databricks based on Entra ID assignments. Enabling this 
integration ensures that access controls in Databricks remain consistent with corporate 
identity governance policies, reducing the risk of orphaned accounts, stale permissions, 
and unauthorized access.

Blobs in Azure storage accounts may contain sensitive or personal data, such as ePHI 
or financial information. Data that is erroneously modified or deleted by an application or 
a user can lead to data loss or unavailability. 
It is recommended that soft delete be enabled on Azure storage accounts with blob 
storage to allow for the preservation and recovery of data when blobs or blob snapshots 
are deleted.

Why This Matters
Syncing users and groups from Microsoft Entra ID centralizes access control, enforces 
the least privilege principle by automatically revoking unnecessary access, reduces 
administrative overhead by eliminating manual user management, and ensures 
auditability and compliance with industry regulations.

Blobs can be deleted incorrectly. An attacker or malicious user may do this deliberately 
in order to cause disruption. Deleting an Azure storage blob results in immediate data 
loss. Enabling this configuration for Azure storage accounts ensures that even if blobs 
are deleted from the storage account, the blobs are recoverable for a specific period of 
time, which is defined in the "Retention policies," ranging from 7 to 365 days.

Audit Steps
For Encrypt All Sensitive Information in Transit:
Audit from Azure Portal 
Verify SCIM provisioning is enabled: 
1. Go to Microsoft Entra ID. 
2. Under Manage, click Enterprise applications. 
3. Click the name of the Azure Databricks SCIM application. 
4. Under Provisioning, confirm that SCIM provisioning is enabled and running. 
Check user sync status in Azure Portal: 
5. Under Provisioning Logs, verify the last successful sync and any failed 
entries. 
Check user sync status in Databricks: 
6. Go to Admin Console > Identity and Access Management. 
7. Confirm that Users and Groups match those assigned in Microsoft Entra ID. 
Ensure role-based access control (RBAC) mapping is correct: 
8. Verify that users are assigned appropriate Databricks roles (e.g. Admin, User, 
Contributor). 
9. Confirm that groups are mapped to workspace access roles.

For Encrypt All Sensitive Information in Transit:
Audit from Azure Portal 
1. Go to Storage Accounts. 
2. For each Storage Account with blob storage, under Data management, go to 
Data protection. 
3. Ensure that Enable soft delete for blobs is checked. 
4. Ensure that the retention period is a sufficient length for your organization. 
Audit from Azure CLI 
Run the following command to list storage accounts: 
az storage account list 
Run the following command to determine if a storage account has containers: 
az storage container list --account-name <storage-account> 
 For each storage account with containers, ensure that the output of the below command 
contains "enabled": true and days is not null: 
az storage blob service-properties delete-policy show --account-name 
<storage-account>

Remediation
For Encrypt All Sensitive Information in Transit:
Remediate from Azure Portal 
Enable provisioning in Azure Portal: 
1. Go to Microsoft Entra ID. 
2. Under Manage, click Enterprise applications. 
3. Click the name of the Azure Databricks SCIM application. 
4. Under Provisioning, select Automatic and enter the SCIM endpoint and API 
token from Databricks. 
Enable provisioning in Databricks: 
5. Navigate to Admin Console > Identity and Access Management. 
6. Enable SCIM provisioning and generate an API token. 
Configure role assignments: 
7. Ensure groups from Entra ID are mapped to appropriate Databricks roles. 
8. Restrict administrative privileges to designated security groups. 
Regularly monitor sync logs: 
9. Periodically review sync logs in Microsoft Entra ID and Databricks Admin 
Console. 
10. Configure Azure Monitor alerts for provisioning failures. 
Disable manual user creation in Databricks: 
11. Ensure that all user management is controlled via SCIM sync from Entra ID. 
12. Disable personal access token usage for authentication. 
Remediate from Azure CLI 
Enable SCIM User and Group Provisioning in Azure Databricks: 
az ad app update --id <databricks-app-id> --set 
provisioning.provisioningMode=Automatic

For Encrypt All Sensitive Information in Transit:
Remediate from Azure Portal 
1. Go to Storage Accounts. 
2. For each Storage Account with blob storage, under Data management, go to 
Data protection. 
3. Check the box next to Enable soft delete for blobs. 
4. Set the retention period to a sufficient length for your organization. 
5. Click Save. 
Remediate from Azure CLI 
For each storage account requiring remediation, run the following command to enable 
soft delete for blobs: 
az storage blob service-properties delete-policy update --days-retained 
<retention-days> --account-name <storage-account> --enable true

Key Takeaways
- Syncing users and groups from Microsoft Entra ID centralizes access control, enforces  the least privilege principle by automatically revoking unnecessary access, reduces  administrative overhead by eliminating manual user management, and ensures  auditability and compliance with industry regulations.
- Blobs can be deleted incorrectly.
- An attacker or malicious user may do this deliberately  in order to cause disruption.
