6.1.1: Ensure that 'security defaults' is enabled in Microsoft Entra

Overview
[IMPORTANT - Please read the section overview: If your organization pays for 
Microsoft Entra ID licensing (included in Microsoft 365 E3, E5, F5, or Business 
Premium, and EM&S E3 or E5 licenses) and CAN use Conditional Access, ignore the 
recommendations in this section and proceed to the Conditional Access section.] 
Security defaults in Microsoft Entra ID make it easier to be secure and help protect your 
organization. Security defaults contain preconfigured security settings for common 
attacks. 
Security defaults is available to everyone. The goal is to ensure that all organizations 
have a basic level of security enabled at no extra cost. You may turn on security 
defaults in the Azure portal.

Why This Matters
Security defaults provide secure default settings that we manage on behalf of 
organizations to keep customers safe until they are ready to manage their own identity 
security settings. 
For example, doing the following: 
• 
Requiring all users and admins to register for MFA. 
• 
Challenging users with MFA - when necessary, based on factors such as 
location, device, role, and task. 
• 
Disabling authentication from legacy authentication clients, which can’t do MFA.

Audit Steps
Audit from Azure Portal 
To ensure security defaults is enabled in your directory: 
1. From Azure Home select the Portal Menu. 
2. Browse to Microsoft Entra ID > Properties. 
3. Select Manage security defaults. 
4. Under Security defaults, verify that Enabled (recommended) is selected.

Remediation
Remediate from Azure Portal 
To enable security defaults in your directory: 
1. From Azure Home select the Portal Menu. 
2. Browse to Microsoft Entra ID > Properties. 
3. Select Manage security defaults. 
4. Under Security defaults, select Enabled (recommended). 
5. Select Save.

Key Takeaways
- Security defaults provide secure default settings that we manage on behalf of  organizations to keep customers safe until they are ready to manage their own identity  security settings.
- For example, doing the following:  •  Requiring all users and admins to register for MFA.
- Challenging users with MFA - when necessary, based on factors such as  location, device, role, and task.
