10.3.12: Ensure Redundancy is set to 'geo-redundant storage (GRS)' on critical Azure Storage

Remediation
CIS has developed Build Kits for many technologies to assist in the automation of 
hardening systems. Build Kits are designed to correspond to Benchmark's 
“Remediation” section, which provides the manual remediation steps necessary to make 
that Recommendation compliant to the Benchmark. 
When remediating systems (changing configuration settings on 
deployed systems as per the Benchmark's Recommendations), 
please approach this with caution and test thoroughly. 
The following is a reasonable remediation approach to follow: 
• CIS Build Kits, or internally developed remediation methods should never be 
applied to production systems without proper testing. 
• Proper testing consists of the following: 
o Understand the configuration (including installed applications) of the targeted 
systems. Various parts of the organization may need different configurations 
(e.g., software developers vs standard office workers). 
o Read the Impact section of the given Recommendation to help determine if 
there might be an issue with the targeted systems. 
o Test the configuration changes with representative lab system(s). If issues 
arise during testing, they can be resolved prior to deploying to any production 
systems. 
o When testing is complete, initially deploy to a small sub-set of production 
systems and monitor closely for issues. If there are issues, they can be 
resolved prior to deploying more broadly. 
o When the initial deployment above is completes successfully, iteratively 
deploy to additional systems and monitor closely for issues. Repeat this 
process until the full deployment is complete. 
Summary 
Using the Benchmarks Certified tools, working as a team with key stakeholders, being 
selective with exceptions, and being careful with remediation deployment, it is possible 
to harden large numbers of deployed systems in a cost effective, efficient, and safe 
manner. 
NOTE: As previously stated, the PDF versions of the CIS Benchmarks™ are 
available for free, non-commercial use on the CIS Website. All other formats 
of the CIS Benchmarks™ (MS Word, Excel, and Build Kits) are available for 
CIS SecureSuite® members. 
CIS-CAT® Pro is also available to CIS SecureSuite® members. 
Target Technology Details 
This document, CIS Microsoft Azure Foundations Benchmark, provides prescriptive 
guidance for establishing a secure baseline configuration for Microsoft Azure. This 
Benchmark is scoped to establish foundational security for tenancy in the Microsoft 
Azure cloud services platform. For Cloud Service Providers, the "Foundations" 
Benchmark is meant to be used as a first step which is complimented by "Service 
Category" Benchmarks as a second step. This relationship is further explained in the 
"Introduction" section. Section overviews are used extensively in this document to 
provide specific and very important context - review section overviews diligently. 

The sections of this document are titled to reflect the product category names found in 
the Microsoft Azure Product Directory. These categorical sections are then divided into 
subsections that will be titled to reflect the specific services being addressed. 
Recommendations will be found in these subsections if "Foundational" 
recommendations are available for the service, OR if a Service Category Benchmark 
has not yet been created to address the Service Category. 

To obtain the latest version of this guide, please visit https://benchmarks.cisecurity.org. 
If you have questions, comments, or have identified ways to improve this guide, please 
write us at BenchmarkInfo@cisecurity.org. 
Intended Audience 
This document is intended for system and application administrators, security 
specialists, auditors, help desk, and platform deployment personnel who plan to 
develop, deploy, assess, or secure solutions that incorporate Microsoft Azure. 
Consensus Guidance 
This CIS Benchmark™ was created using a consensus review process comprised of a 
global community of subject matter experts. The process combines real world 
experience with data-based information to create technology specific guidance to assist 
users to secure their environments. Consensus participants provide perspective from a 
diverse set of backgrounds

Key Takeaways
- This control mitigates risks associated with ensure redundancy is set to 'geo-redundant storage (grs)' on critical azure storage.
