16.8: Disable Any Unassociated Accounts

Overview
The User Access Administrator role grants the ability to view all resources and manage 
access assignments at any subscription or management group level within the tenant. 
Due to its high privilege level, this role assignment should be removed immediately after 
completing the necessary changes at the root scope to minimize security risks.

Why This Matters
The User Access Administrator role provides extensive access control privileges. 
Unnecessary assignments heighten the risk of privilege escalation and unauthorized 
access. Removing the role immediately after use minimizes security exposure.

Audit Steps
Audit from Azure Portal 
1. From Azure Home select the Portal Menu. 
2. Select Subscriptions. 
3. Select a subscription. 
4. Select Access control (IAM). 
5. Look for the following banner at the top of the page: Action required: X 
users have elevated access in your tenant. You should take 
immediate action and remove all role assignments with elevated 
access. If the banner is displayed, the User Access Administrator is 
assigned. 
Audit from Azure CLI 
Run the following command: 
az role assignment list --role "User Access Administrator" --scope "/" 
Ensure that the command does not return any User Access Administrator role 
assignment information.

Remediation
Remediate from Azure Portal 
1. From Azure Home select the Portal Menu. 
2. Select Subscriptions. 
3. Select a subscription. 
4. Select Access control (IAM). 
5. Look for the following banner at the top of the page: Action required: X 
users have elevated access in your tenant. You should take 
immediate action and remove all role assignments with elevated 
access. 
6. Click View role assignments. 
7. Click Remove. 
Remediate from Azure CLI 
Run the following command: 
az role assignment delete --role "User Access Administrator" --scope "/"

Key Takeaways
- The User Access Administrator role provides extensive access control privileges.
- Unnecessary assignments heighten the risk of privilege escalation and unauthorized  access.
- Removing the role immediately after use minimizes security exposure.
