6.8: Regularly Tune SIEM (and related controls)

Overview
Enables emailing attack paths to the subscription owner or other designated security 
contact.

An organization's attack surface is the collection of assets with a public network 
identifier or URI that an external threat actor can see or access from outside your cloud. 
It is the set of points on the boundary of a system, a system element, system 
component, or an environment where an attacker can try to enter, cause an effect on, or 
extract data from, that system, system element, system component, or environment. 
The larger the attack surface, the harder it is to protect. 
This tool can be configured to scan your organization's online infrastructure such as 
specified domains, hosts, CIDR blocks, and SSL certificates, and store them in an 
Inventory. Inventory items can be added, reviewed, approved, and removed, and may 
contain enrichments ("insights") and additional information collected from the tool's 
different scan engines and open-source intelligence sources. 
A Defender EASM workspace will generate an Inventory of publicly exposed assets by 
crawling and scanning the internet using Seeds you provide when setting up the tool. 
Seeds can be FQDNs, IP CIDR blocks, and WHOIS records. 
Defender EASM will generate Insights within 24-48 hours after Seeds are provided, and 
these insights include vulnerability data (CVEs), ports and protocols, and weak or 
expired SSL certificates that could be used by an attacker for reconnaissance or 
exploitation. 
Results are classified High/Medium/Low and some of them include proposed 
mitigations.

Why This Matters
Enabling attack path emails ensures that attack path emails are sent by Microsoft. This 
ensures that the right people are aware of any potential security issues and can mitigate 
the risk.

This tool can monitor the externally exposed resources of an organization, provide 
valuable insights, and export these findings in a variety of formats (including CSV) for 
use in vulnerability management operations and red/purple team exercises.

Audit Steps
For Regularly Tune SIEM:
Audit from Azure Portal 
1. From Azure Home select the Portal Menu. 
2. Select Microsoft Defender for Cloud. 
3. Under Management, select Environment settings. 
4. Click on the appropriate Subscription. 
5. Click on Email notifications. 
6. Under Notification types, ensure that the box next to Notify about attack 
paths with the following risk level (or higher) is checked, and an 
appropriate risk level is selected. 
7. Repeat steps 1-6 for each Subscription. 
Audit from Azure CLI 
Including a Subscription ID at the $0 in /subscriptions/$0/providers, ensure the 
below command returns "sourceType": "AttackPath", and that 
"minimalRiskLevel" is set to an appropriate risk level: 
az account get-access-token --query 
"{subscription:subscription,accessToken:accessToken}" --out tsv | xargs -L1 
bash -c 'curl -X GET -H "Authorization: Bearer $1" -H "Content-Type: 
application/json" 
https://management.azure.com/subscriptions/$0/providers/Microsoft.Security/se curityContacts?api-version=2023-12-01-preview' | jq '.|.[]'

For Regularly Tune SIEM:
Audit from Azure Portal 
1. Go to Microsoft Defender EASM. 
2. Ensure that at least one Microsoft Defender EASM workspace is listed. 
3. Click the name of a workspace. 
4. Ensure the workspace is configured appropriately for your environment and 
organization. 
5. Repeat steps 3-4 for each workspace.

Remediation
For Regularly Tune SIEM:
Remediate from Azure Portal 
1. From Azure Home select the Portal Menu. 
2. Select Microsoft Defender for Cloud. 
3. Under Management, select Environment settings. 
4. Click on the appropriate Subscription. 
5. Click on Email notifications. 
6. Under Notification types, check the box next to Notify about attack paths 
with the following risk level (or higher), and select an appropriate 
risk level from the drop-down menu. 
7. Repeat steps 1-6 for each Subscription.

For Regularly Tune SIEM:
Remediate from Azure Portal 
1. Go to Microsoft Defender EASM. 
2. Click + Create. 
3. Under Project details, select a subscription. 
4. Select or create a resource group. 
5. Under Instance details, enter a name for the workspace. 
6. Select a region. 
7. Click Review + create. 
8. Click Create. 
9. Once the deployment has completed, go to Microsoft Defender EASM. 
10. Click the workspace name. 
11. Configure the workspace appropriately for your environment and organization.

Key Takeaways
- Enabling attack path emails ensures that attack path emails are sent by Microsoft.
- This  ensures that the right people are aware of any potential security issues and can mitigate  the risk.
- This tool can monitor the externally exposed resources of an organization, provide  valuable insights, and export these findings in a variety of formats (including CSV) for  use in vulnerability management operations and red/purple team exercises.
