13.3: Monitor and Block Unauthorized Network Traffic (and related controls)

Overview
Use private endpoints to allow clients and services to securely access data located over 
a network via an encrypted Private Link. To do this, the private endpoint uses an IP 
address from the VNet for each service. Network traffic between disparate services 
securely traverses encrypted over the VNet. This VNet can also link addressing space, 
extending your network and accessing resources on it. Similarly, it can be a tunnel 
through public networks to connect remote infrastructures together. This creates further 
security through segmenting network traffic and preventing outside sources from 
accessing it.

When this property is enabled, the Azure portal authorizes requests to blobs, files, 
queues, and tables with Microsoft Entra ID by default.

The Azure Storage blobs contain data like ePHI or Financial, which can be secret or 
personal. Data that is erroneously modified or deleted by an application or other storage 
account user will cause data loss or unavailability. 
It is recommended that both Azure Containers with attached Blob Storage and 
standalone containers with Blob Storage be made recoverable by enabling the soft 
delete configuration. This is to save and recover data when blobs or blob snapshots are 
deleted.

Why This Matters
Securing traffic between services through encryption protects the data from easy 
interception and reading.

Microsoft Entra ID provides superior security and ease of use over Shared Key.

Containers and Blob Storage data can be incorrectly deleted. An attacker/malicious 
user may do this deliberately in order to cause disruption. Deleting an Azure Storage 
blob causes immediate data loss. Enabling this configuration for Azure storage ensures 
that even if blobs/data were deleted from the storage account, Blobs/data objects are 
recoverable for a particular time which is set in the "Retention policies," ranging from 7 
days to 365 days.

Audit Steps
For Monitor and Block Unauthorized Network Traffic:
Audit from Azure Portal 
1. Go to Storage accounts. 
2. Click the name of a storage account. 
3. Under Settings, click Configuration. 
4. Ensure that Default to Microsoft Entra authorization in the Azure 
portal is set to Enabled. 
5. Repeat steps 1-4 for each storage account. 
Audit from Azure CLI 
Run the following command to get the name and defaultToOAuthAuthentication 
setting for each storage account: 
az storage account list --query [*].[name,defaultToOAuthAuthentication] 
Ensure that true is returned for each storage account.

For Monitor and Block Unauthorized Network Traffic:
Audit from Azure Portal 
1. Go to Storage Accounts. 
2. For each Storage Account, under Data management, go to Data protection. 
3. Ensure that Enable soft delete for blobs is checked. 
4. Ensure that Enable soft delete for containers is checked. 
5. Ensure that the retention period for both is a sufficient length for your 
organization. 
Audit from Azure CLI 
Blob Storage: Ensure that the output of the below command contains enabled status as 
true and days is not empty or null 
az storage blob service-properties delete-policy show 
 --account-name <storageAccount> 
 --account-key <accountkey> 

 Azure Containers: Ensure that within containerDeleteRetentionPolicy, the 
enabled property is set to true. 
az storage account blob-service-properties show 
 --account-name <storageAccount> 
 --resource-group <resourceGroup>

Remediation
For Monitor and Block Unauthorized Network Traffic:
Remediate from Azure Portal 
1. Go to Storage accounts. 
2. Click the name of a storage account. 
3. Under Settings, click Configuration. 
4. Under Default to Microsoft Entra authorization in the Azure 
portal, click the radio button next to Enabled. 
5. Click Save. 
6. Repeat steps 1-5 for each storage account requiring remediation. 
Remediate from Azure CLI 
For each storage account requiring remediation, run the following command to enable 
defaultToOAuthAuthentication: 
az storage account update --resource-group <resource-group> --name <storageaccount> --set defaultToOAuthAuthentication=true

For Monitor and Block Unauthorized Network Traffic:
Remediate from Azure Portal 
1. Go to Storage Accounts. 
2. For each Storage Account, under Data management, go to Data protection. 
3. Check the box next to Enable soft delete for blobs. 
4. Check the box next to Enable soft delete for containers. 
5. Set the retention period for both to a sufficient length for your organization. 
6. Click Save. 
Remediate from Azure CLI 
Update blob storage retention days in below command 
az storage blob service-properties delete-policy update --days-retained 
<RetentionDaysValue> --account-name <StorageAccountName> --account-key 
<AccountKey> --enable true 
Update container retention with the below command 
az storage account blob-service-properties update 
 --enable-container-delete-retention true 
 --container-delete-retention-days <days> 
 --account-name <storageAccount> 
 --resource-group <resourceGroup>

Key Takeaways
- Securing traffic between services through encryption protects the data from easy  interception and reading.
- Microsoft Entra ID provides superior security and ease of use over Shared Key.
- Containers and Blob Storage data can be incorrectly deleted.
