16.2: Configure Centralized Point of Authentication (and related controls)

Overview
Unity Catalog is a centralized governance model for managing and securing data in 
Azure Databricks. It provides fine-grained access control to databases, tables, and 
views using Microsoft Entra ID identities. Unity Catalog also enhances data lineage, 
audit logging, and compliance monitoring, making it a critical component for security 
and governance.

Databricks personal access tokens (PATs) provide API-based authentication for users 
and applications. By default, users can generate API tokens without expiration, leading 
to potential security risks if tokens are leaked, improperly stored, or not rotated 
regularly. 
To mitigate these risks, administrators should: 
• 
Restrict token creation to approved users and service principals. 
• 
Enforce expiration policies to prevent long-lived tokens. 
• 
Monitor token usage and revoke unused or compromised tokens.

Ensure that all Global Administrators are notified if any other administrator resets their 
password.

Why This Matters
• 
Enforces centralized access control policies and reduces data security risks. 
• 
Enables identity-based authentication via Microsoft Entra ID. 
• 
Improves compliance with industry regulations (e.g. GDPR, HIPAA, SOC 2) by 
providing audit logs and access visibility. 
• 
Prevents unauthorized data access through table-, row-, and column-level 
security (RLS & CLS).

Restricting usage and enforcing expiry for personal access tokens reduces exposure to 
long-lived tokens, minimizes the risk of API abuse if compromised, and aligns with 
security best practices through controlled issuance and enforced expiry.

Administrator accounts are sensitive. Any password reset activity notification, when sent 
to all Administrators, ensures that all Global Administrators can passively confirm if such 
a reset is a common pattern within their group. For example, if all Administrators change 
their password every 30 days, any password reset activity before that may require 
administrator(s) to evaluate any unusual activity and confirm its origin.

Audit Steps
For Configure Centralized Point of Authentication:
Method 1: Verify unity catalog deployment: 
1. As an Azure Databricks account admin, log into the account console. 
2. Click Workspaces. 
3. Find your workspace and check the Metastore column. If a metastore name is 
present, your workspace is attached to a Unity Catalog metastore and therefore 
enabled for Unity Catalog. 
Method 2: Run a SQL query to confirm Unity Catalog enablement 
Run the following SQL query in the SQL query editor or a notebook that is attached to a 
Unity Catalog-enabled compute resource. No admin role is required. 
SELECT CURRENT_METASTORE(); 
If the query returns a metastore ID like the following, then your workspace is attached to 
a Unity Catalog metastore and therefore enabled for Unity Catalog.

For Configure Centralized Point of Authentication:
Azure Databricks administrators can monitor and revoke personal access tokens within 
their workspace. Detailed instructions are available in the "Monitor and Revoke 
Personal Access Tokens" section of the Microsoft documentation: 
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/databricks/admin/access-control/tokens. 
To evaluate the usage of personal access tokens in your Azure Databricks account, you 
can utilize the provided notebook that lists all PATs not rotated or updated in the last 90 
days, allowing you to identify tokens that may require revocation. This process is 
detailed here: https://docs.azure.cn/en-us/databricks/security/auth/oauth-pat-usage. 
Implementing diagnostic logging provides a comprehensive reference of audit log 
services and events, enabling you to track activities related to personal access tokens. 
More information can be found in the diagnostic log reference section: 
https://docs.azure.cn/en-us/databricks/security/auth/oauth-pat-usage.

For Configure Centralized Point of Authentication:
Audit from Azure Portal 
1. From Azure Home select the Portal Menu 
2. Select Microsoft Entra ID 
3. Under Manage, select Users 
4. Under Manage, select Password reset 
5. Under Manage, select Notifications 
6. Ensure that Notify all admins when other admins reset their 
password? is set to Yes

Remediation
For Configure Centralized Point of Authentication:
Use the remediation procedure written in this article: https://learn.microsoft.com/enus/azure/databricks/data-governance/unity-catalog/get-started.

For Configure Centralized Point of Authentication:
Remediate from Azure Portal 
Disable personal access tokens: 
If your workspace does not require PATs, you can disable them entirely to prevent their 
use. 
1. Navigate to your Azure Databricks workspace. 
2. Click the Settings icon and select Admin Console. 
3. Go to the Advanced tab. 
4. Under Personal Access Tokens, toggle the setting to Disabled. 
Databricks CLI: 
databricks workspace-conf set-status --json '{"enableTokens": "false"}' 
Control who can create and use personal access tokens: 
Define which users or groups are authorized to create and utilize PATs. 
1. Navigate to your Azure Databricks workspace. 
2. Click the Settings icon and select Admin Console. 
3. Go to the Advanced tab. 
4. Click on Personal Access Tokens and then Permissions. 
5. Assign the appropriate permissions (e.g. No Permissions, Can Use, Can 
Manage) to users or groups. 
Set maximum lifetime for new personal access tokens: 
Limit the validity period of new tokens to reduce potential misuse. 
Databricks CLI: 
databricks workspace-conf set-status --json '{"maxTokenLifetimeDays": "90"}' 
Monitor and revoke personal access tokens: 
Periodically review active tokens and revoke any that are unnecessary or potentially 
compromised. 
Databricks CLI: 
databricks token list 
databricks token delete --token-id <token-id> 
Transition to OAuth for enhanced security: 
Utilize OAuth tokens for authentication, offering improved security features over PATs.

For Configure Centralized Point of Authentication:
Remediate from Azure Portal 
1. From Azure Home select the Portal Menu 
2. Select Microsoft Entra ID 
3. Under Manage, select Users 
4. Under Manage, select Password reset 
5. Under Manage, select Notifications 
6. Set Notify all admins when other admins reset their password? to 
Yes 7. Click Save

Key Takeaways
- Enforces centralized access control policies and reduces data security risks.
- Enables identity-based authentication via Microsoft Entra ID.
- Improves compliance with industry regulations (e.
