6.4: Require MFA for Remote Network Access (and related controls)

Overview
The principle of least privilege should be followed and only necessary privileges should 
be assigned instead of allowing full administrative access.

Enable Network Watcher for physical regions in Azure subscriptions.

Why This Matters
Custom roles in Azure with administrative access can obfuscate the permissions 
granted and introduce complexity and blind spots to the management of privileged 
identities. For less mature security programs without regular identity audits, the creation 
of Custom roles should be avoided entirely. For more mature security programs with 
regular identity audits, Custom Roles should be audited for use and assignment, used 
minimally, and the principle of least privilege should be observed when granting 
permissions

Network diagnostic and visualization tools available with Network Watcher help users 
understand, diagnose, and gain insights to the network in Azure.

Audit Steps
For Require MFA for Remote Network Access:
Audit from Azure Portal 
1. From Azure Home select the Portal Menu. 
2. Select Subscriptions. 
3. Select a subscription. 
4. Select Access control (IAM). 
5. Select Roles. 
6. Click Type and select Custom role from the drop-down menu. 
7. Select View next to a role. 
8. Select JSON. 
9. Check for assignableScopes set to the subscription, and actions set to *. 
10. Repeat steps 7-9 for each custom role. 
Audit from Azure CLI 
List custom roles: 
az role definition list --custom-role-only True 
Check for entries with assignableScope of the subscription, and an action of * 
 Audit from PowerShell 
Connect-AzAccount 
Get-AzRoleDefinition |Where-Object {($_.IsCustom -eq $true) -and 
($_.Actions.contains('*'))} 
Check the output for AssignableScopes value set to the subscription. 
Audit from Azure Policy 
If referencing a digital copy of this Benchmark, clicking a Policy ID will open a link to the 
associated Policy definition in Azure. 
If referencing a printed copy, you can search Policy IDs from this URL: 
https://portal.azure.com/#view/Microsoft_Azure_Policy/PolicyMenuBlade/~/Definitions 
• 
Policy ID: a451c1ef-c6ca-483d-87ed-f49761e3ffb5 - Name: 'Audit usage of 
custom RBAC roles'

For Ensure adequate storage for logs:
Audit from Azure Portal 
1. Use the Search bar to search for and click on the Network Watcher service. 
2. From the Overview menu item, review each Network Watcher listed, and ensure 
that a network watcher is listed for each region in use by the subscription. 
Audit from Azure CLI 
az network watcher list --query 
"[].{Location:location,State:provisioningState}" -o table 
This will list all network watchers and their provisioning state. 
Ensure provisioningState is Succeeded for each network watcher. 
az account list-locations --query 
"[?metadata.regionType=='Physical'].{Name:name,DisplayName:regionalDisplayNam e}" -o table 
This will list all physical regions that exist in the subscription. 
Compare this list to the previous one to ensure that for each region in use, a network 
watcher exists with provisioningState set to Succeeded. 

Audit from PowerShell 
Get a list of Network Watchers 
Get-AzNetworkWatcher 
Make sure each watcher is set with the ProvisioningState setting set to Succeeded 
and all Locations that are in use by the subscription are using a watcher. 

Audit from Azure Policy 
If referencing a digital copy of this Benchmark, clicking a Policy ID will open a link to the 
associated Policy definition in Azure. 
If referencing a printed copy, you can search Policy IDs from this URL: 
https://portal.azure.com/#view/Microsoft_Azure_Policy/PolicyMenuBlade/~/Definitions 
• 
Policy ID: b6e2945c-0b7b-40f5-9233-7a5323b5cdc6 - Name: 'Network Watcher 
should be enabled'

Remediation
For Require MFA for Remote Network Access:
Remediate from Azure Portal 
1. From Azure Home select the Portal Menu. 
2. Select Subscriptions. 
3. Select a subscription. 
4. Select Access control (IAM). 
5. Select Roles. 
6. Click Type and select Custom role from the drop-down menu. 
7. Check the box next to each role which grants subscription administrator 
privileges. 
8. Select Delete. 
9. Select Yes. 
Remediate from Azure CLI 
List custom roles: 
az role definition list --custom-role-only True 
Check for entries with assignableScope of the subscription, and an action of *. 
To remove a violating role: 
az role definition delete --name <role name> 
Note that any role assignments must be removed before a custom role can be deleted. 
Ensure impact is assessed before deleting a custom role granting subscription 
administrator privileges.

For Ensure adequate storage for logs:
Opting out of Network Watcher automatic enablement is a permanent change. Once 
you opt-out you cannot opt-in without contacting support. 
To manually enable Network Watcher in each region where you want to use Network 
Watcher capabilities, follow the steps below. 
Remediate from Azure Portal 
1. Use the Search bar to search for and click on the Network Watcher service. 
2. Click Create. 
3. Select a Region from the drop-down menu. 
4. Click Add. 
Remediate from Azure CLI 
az network watcher configure --locations <region> --enabled true --resourcegroup <resource_group>

Key Takeaways
- Custom roles in Azure with administrative access can obfuscate the permissions  granted and introduce complexity and blind spots to the management of privileged  identities.
- For less mature security programs without regular identity audits, the creation  of Custom roles should be avoided entirely.
- For more mature security programs with  regular identity audits, Custom Roles should be audited for use and assignment, used  minimally, and the principle of least privilege should be observed when granting  permissions Network diagnostic and visualization tools available with Network Watcher help users  understand, diagnose, and gain insights to the network in Azure.
