16.3: Require Multi-factor Authentication (and related controls)

Overview
Entra ID tracks the behavior of sign-in events. If the Entra ID domain is licensed with 
P2, the sign-in behavior can be used as a detection mechanism for additional scrutiny 
during the sign-in event. If this policy is set up, then Risky Sign-in events will prompt 
users to use multi-factor authentication (MFA) tokens on login for additional verification.

This recommendation ensures that users accessing the Windows Azure Service 
Management API (i.e. Azure Powershell, Azure CLI, Azure Resource Manager API, 
etc.) are required to use multi-factor authentication (MFA) credentials when accessing 
resources through the Windows Azure Service Management API.

Why This Matters
Enabling multi-factor authentication is a recommended setting to limit the potential of 
accounts being compromised and limiting access to authenticated personnel. Enabling 
this policy allows Entra ID's risk-detection mechanisms to force additional scrutiny on 
the login event, providing a deterrent response to potentially malicious sign-in events, 
and adding an additional authentication layer as a reaction to potentially malicious 
behavior.

Administrative access to the Windows Azure Service Management API should be 
secured with a higher level of scrutiny to authenticating mechanisms. Enabling multifactor authentication is recommended to reduce the potential for abuse of Administrative 
actions, and to prevent intruders or compromised admin credentials from changing 
administrative settings. 
IMPORTANT: While this recommendation allows exceptions to specific Users or 
Groups, they should be very carefully tracked and reviewed for necessity on a regular 
interval through an Access Review process. It is important that this rule be built to 
include "All Users" to ensure that all users not specifically excepted will be required to 
use MFA to access the Azure Service Management API.

Audit Steps
For Require Multi-factor Authentication:
Audit from Azure Portal 
1. From Azure Home select the Portal Menu in the top left and select Microsoft 
Entra ID. 
2. Select Security. 
3. Select on the left side Conditional Access. 
4. Select Policies. 
5. Select the policy you wish to audit. 
6. Click the blue text under Users. 
7. View under Include the corresponding users and groups to whom the policy is 
applied. 
8. View under Exclude to determine which users and groups to whom the policy is 
not applied.

For Require Multi-factor Authentication:
Audit from Azure Portal 
1. From the Azure Admin Portal dashboard, open Microsoft Entra ID. 
2. In the menu on the left of the Entra ID blade, click Security. 
3. In the menu on the left of the Security blade, click Conditional Access. 
4. In the menu on the left of the Conditional Access blade, click Policies. 
5. Click on the name of the policy you wish to audit. 
6. Click the blue text under Users. 
7. Under the Include section of Users, ensure that All Users is selected. 
8. Under the Exclude section of Users, review the Users and Groups that are 
excluded from the policy (NOTE: this should be limited to break-glass emergency 
access accounts, non-interactive service accounts, and other carefully 
considered exceptions). 
9. On the left side, click the blue text under Target resources. 
10. Under the Include section of Target Resources, ensure that the Select apps 
radio button is selected. 
11. Under Select, ensure that Windows Azure Service Management API is listed.

Remediation
For Require Multi-factor Authentication:
Remediate from Azure Portal 1. From Azure Home select the Portal Menu in the top left and select Microsoft 
Entra ID. 
2. Select Security 
3. Select Conditional Access. 
4. Select Policies. 
5. Click + New policy. 
6. Enter a name for the policy. 
7. Click the blue text under Users. 
8. Under Include, select All users. 
9. Under Exclude, check Users and groups. 
10. Select users this policy should not apply to and click Select. 
11. Click the blue text under Target resources. 
12. Select All cloud apps. 
13. Click the blue text under Conditions. 
14. Select Sign-in risk. 
15. Update the Configure toggle to Yes. 
16. Check the sign-in risk level this policy should apply to, e.g. High and Medium. 
17. Select Done. 
18. Click the blue text under Grant and check Require multifactor 
authentication then click the Select button. 
19. Click the blue text under Session then check Sign-in frequency and select 
Every time and click the Select button. 
20. Set Enable policy to Report-only. 
21. Click Create. 
After testing the policy in report-only mode, update the Enable policy setting from 
Report-only to On.

For Require Multi-factor Authentication:
Remediate from Azure Portal 
1. From the Azure Admin Portal dashboard, open Microsoft Entra ID. 
2. Click Security in the Entra ID blade. 
3. Click Conditional Access in the Security blade. 
4. Click Policies in the Conditional Access blade. 
5. Click + New policy. 
6. Enter a name for the policy. 
7. Click the blue text under Users. 
8. Under Include, select All users. 
9. Under Exclude, check Users and groups. 
10. Select users or groups to be exempted from this policy (e.g. break-glass 
emergency accounts, and non-interactive service accounts) then click the 
Select button. 
11. Click the blue text under Target resources. 
12. Under Include, click the Select apps radio button. 
13. Click the blue text under Select. 
14. Check the box next to Windows Azure Service Management APIs then click 
the Select button. 
15. Click the blue text under Grant. 
16. Under Grant access check the box for Require multi-factor 
authentication then click the Select button. 
17. Before creating, set Enable policy to Report-only. 
18. Click Create. 
After testing the policy in report-only mode, update the Enable policy setting from 
Report-only to On.

Key Takeaways
- Enabling multi-factor authentication is a recommended setting to limit the potential of  accounts being compromised and limiting access to authenticated personnel.
- Enabling  this policy allows Entra ID's risk-detection mechanisms to force additional scrutiny on  the login event, providing a deterrent response to potentially malicious sign-in events,  and adding an additional authentication layer as a reaction to potentially malicious  behavior.
- Administrative access to the Windows Azure Service Management API should be  secured with a higher level of scrutiny to authenticating mechanisms.
