12.1: Maintain an Inventory of Network Boundaries (and related controls)

Overview
Conditional Access Policies can be used to prevent the Device code authentication flow. 
Device code flow should be permitted only for users that regularly perform duties that 
explicitly require the use of Device Code to authenticate, such as utilizing Azure with 
PowerShell.

Public IP Addresses provide tenant accounts with Internet connectivity for resources 
contained within the tenant. During the creation of certain resources in Azure, a Public 
IP Address may be created. All Public IP Addresses within the tenant should be 
periodically reviewed for accuracy and necessity.

Why This Matters
Attackers use Device code flow in phishing attacks and, if successful, results in the 
attacker gaining access tokens and refresh tokens which are scoped to 
"user_impersonation", which can perform any action the user has permission to 
perform.

Public IP Addresses allocated to the tenant should be periodically reviewed for 
necessity. Public IP Addresses that are not intentionally assigned and controlled 
present a publicly facing vector for threat actors and significant risk to the tenant.

Audit Steps
For Maintain an Inventory of Network Boundaries:
Audit from Azure Portal 
1. From Azure Home open the Portal menu in the top left and select Microsoft 
Entra ID. 
2. Scroll down in the menu on the left and select Security. 
3. Select on the left side Conditional Access. 
4. Select Policies. 
5. Select the policy you wish to audit, then: 
o Under Assignments > Users, review the users and groups for the 
personnel the policy will apply to 
o Under Assignments > Target resources, review the cloud apps or 
actions for the systems the policy will apply to 
o Under Conditions > Authentication Flows, review the configuration to 
ensure Device code flow is selected o Under Access Controls > Grant - Confirm that Block access is 
selected.

For Maintain an Inventory of Network Boundaries:
Audit from Azure Portal 
1. Open the All Resources blade 
2. Click on Add Filter 
3. In the Add Filter window, select the following: 
Filter: Type 
Operator: Equals 
Value: Public IP address 
4. Click the Apply button 
5. For each Public IP address in the list, use Overview (or Properties) to review the 
"Associated to:" field and determine if the associated resource is still relevant 
to your tenant environment. If the associated resource is relevant, ensure that 
additional controls exist to mitigate risk (e.g. Firewalls, VPNs, Traffic Filtering, 
Virtual Gateway Appliances, Web Application Firewalls, etc.) on all subsequently 
attached resources. 
Audit from Azure CLI 
List all Public IP addresses: 
az network public-ip list 
For each Public IP address in the output, review the "name" property and determine if 
the associated resource is still relevant to your tenant environment. If the associated 
resource is relevant, ensure that additional controls exist to mitigate risk (e.g. Firewalls, 
VPNs, Traffic Filtering, Virtual Gateway Appliances, Web Application Firewalls, etc.) on 
all subsequently attached resources.

Remediation
For Maintain an Inventory of Network Boundaries:
Remediate from Azure Portal 
Part 1 of 2 - Create the policy and enable it in Report-only mode. 
1. From Azure Home open the portal menu in the top left and select Microsoft 
Entra ID. 
2. Scroll down in the menu on the left and select Security. 
3. Select on the left side Conditional Access. 
4. Select Policies. 
5. Click the + New policy button, then: 
6. Provide a name for the policy. 
7. Under Assignments, select Users then: 
o Under Include, select All users 
o Under Exclude, check Users and groups and only select emergency 
access accounts 
8. Under Assignments, select Target resources then: 
o Under Include, select All cloud apps 
o Leave Exclude blank unless you have a well defined exception 
9. Under Conditions > Authentication Flows, set Configure to Yes then: 
o Select Device code flow 
o Select Done 
10. Under Access Controls > Grant, select Block Access. 
11. Set Enable policy to Report-only. 
12. Click Create. 
Allow some time to pass to ensure the sign-in logs capture relevant conditional access 
events. These events will need to be reviewed to determine if additional considerations 
are necessary for your organization (e.g. many legitimate use cases of device code 
authentication are observed). 
NOTE: The policy is not yet 'live,' since Report-only is being used to audit the effect of 
the policy. 
Part 2 of 2 - Confirm that the policy is not blocking access that should be granted, then 
toggle to On. 
1. With your policy now in report-only mode, return to the Microsoft Entra blade and 
click on Sign-in logs. 
2. Review the recent sign-in events - click an event then review the event details 
(specifically the Report-only tab) to ensure: 
o The sign-in event you're reviewing occurred after turning on the policy in 
report-only mode 
o The policy name from step 6 above is listed in the Policy Name column o The Result column for the new policy shows that the policy was Not 
applied (indicating the device code authentication flow was not blocked) 
3. If the above conditions are present, navigate back to the policy name in 
Conditional Access and open it. 
4. Toggle the policy from Report-only to On. 
5. Click Save.

For Maintain an Inventory of Network Boundaries:
Remediation will vary significantly depending on your organization's security 
requirements for the resources attached to each individual Public IP address.

Key Takeaways
- Attackers use Device code flow in phishing attacks and, if successful, results in the  attacker gaining access tokens and refresh tokens which are scoped to  "user_impersonation", which can perform any action the user has permission to  perform.
- Public IP Addresses allocated to the tenant should be periodically reviewed for  necessity.
- Public IP Addresses that are not intentionally assigned and controlled  present a publicly facing vector for threat actors and significant risk to the tenant.
