12.8: Deploy NetFlow Collection on Networking (and related controls)

Overview
Enable AppServiceHTTPLogs diagnostic log category for Azure App Service instances 
to ensure all http requests are captured and centrally logged.

Ensure that a Microsoft Entra diagnostic setting is configured to send Microsoft Graph 
activity logs to a suitable destination, such as a Log Analytics workspace, storage 
account, or event hub. This enables centralized monitoring and analysis of all HTTP 
requests that the Microsoft Graph service receives and processes for a tenant.

Why This Matters
Capturing web requests can be important supporting information for security analysts 
performing monitoring and incident response activities. Once logging, these logs can be 
ingested into SIEM or other central aggregation point for the organization.

Microsoft Graph activity logs provide visibility into HTTP requests made to the Microsoft 
Graph service, helping detect unauthorized access, suspicious activity, and security 
threats. Configuring diagnostic settings in Microsoft Entra ensures these logs are 
collected and sent to an appropriate destination for monitoring, analysis, and retention.

Audit Steps
For Deploy NetFlow Collection on Networking:
Audit from Azure Portal 
1. Go to App Services. 
For each App Service: 
2. Under Monitoring, go to Diagnostic settings. 
3. Ensure a diagnostic setting exists that logs HTTP logs to a destination aligned to 
your environment's approach to log consumption (event hub, storage account, 
etc. dependent on what is consuming the logs such as SIEM or other log 
aggregation utility). 
Audit from Azure Policy 
If referencing a digital copy of this Benchmark, clicking a Policy ID will open a link to the 
associated Policy definition in Azure. 
If referencing a printed copy, you can search Policy IDs from this URL: 
https://portal.azure.com/#view/Microsoft_Azure_Policy/PolicyMenuBlade/~/Definitions 
• 
Policy ID: 91a78b24-f231-4a8a-8da9-02c35b2b6510 - Name: 'App Service apps 
should have resource logs enabled' 
• 
Policy ID: d639b3af-a535-4bef-8dcf-15078cddf5e2 - Name: 'App Service app 
slots should have resource logs enabled'

For Deploy NetFlow Collection on Networking:
Audit from Azure Portal 
1. Go to Microsoft Entra ID. 
2. Under Monitoring, click Diagnostic settings. 
3. Next to each diagnostic setting, click Edit setting, and review the selected log 
categories and destination details. 
4. Ensure that at least one diagnostic setting is configured to send 
MicrosoftGraphActivityLogs to an appropriate destination.

Remediation
For Deploy NetFlow Collection on Networking:
Remediate from Azure Portal 
1. Go to App Services. 
For each App Service: 
2. Under Monitoring, go to Diagnostic settings. 
3. To update an existing diagnostic setting, click Edit setting against the setting. 
To create a new diagnostic setting, click Add diagnostic setting and provide 
a name for the new setting. 
4. Check the checkbox next to HTTP logs. 
5. Configure a destination based on your specific logging consumption capability 
(for example Stream to an event hub and then consuming with SIEM integration 
for Event Hub logging). 
6. Click Save.

For Deploy NetFlow Collection on Networking:
Remediate from Azure Portal 
1. Go to Microsoft Entra ID. 
2. Under Monitoring, click Diagnostic settings. 
3. Click + Add diagnostic setting. 
4. Provide a Diagnostic setting name. 
5. Under Logs > Categories, check the box next to 
MicrosoftGraphActivityLogs. 
6. Configure an appropriate destination for the logs. 
7. Click Save.

Key Takeaways
- Capturing web requests can be important supporting information for security analysts  performing monitoring and incident response activities.
- Once logging, these logs can be  ingested into SIEM or other central aggregation point for the organization.
- Microsoft Graph activity logs provide visibility into HTTP requests made to the Microsoft  Graph service, helping detect unauthorized access, suspicious activity, and security  threats.
