4.1.1: Ensure only MFA enabled identities can access privileged

Overview
Verify identities without MFA that can log in to a privileged virtual machine using 
separate login credentials. An adversary can leverage the access to move laterally and 
perform actions with the virtual machine's managed identity. Make sure the virtual 
machine only has necessary permissions, and revoke the admin-level permissions 
according to the principle of least privilege.

Why This Matters
Integrating multi-factor authentication (MFA) as part of the organizational policy can 
greatly reduce the risk of an identity gaining control of valid credentials that may be 
used for additional tactics such as initial access, lateral movement, and collecting 
information. MFA can also be used to restrict access to cloud resources and APIs. 
An Adversary may log into accessible cloud services within a compromised environment 
using Valid Accounts that are synchronized to move laterally and perform actions with 
the virtual machine's managed identity. The adversary may then perform management 
actions or access cloud-hosted resources as the logged-on managed identity.

Audit Steps
Audit from Azure Portal 
1. Log in to the Azure portal. 
2. Select the Subscription, then click on Access control (IAM). 
3. Click Role : All and click All to display the drop-down menu. 
4. Type Virtual Machine Administrator Login and select Virtual Machine 
Administrator Login. 
5. Review the list of identities that have been assigned the Virtual Machine 
Administrator Login role. 
6. Go to Microsoft Entra ID. 
7. For Per-user MFA: 
a) Under Manage, click Users. 
b) Click Per-user MFA. 
c) Ensure that none of the identities assigned the Virtual Machine 
Administrator Login role from step 4 have Status set to disabled. 
8. For Conditional Access: 
a) Under Manage, click Security. 
b) Under Protect, click Conditional Access. 
c) Ensure that none of the identities assigned the Virtual Machine 
Administrator Login role from step 4 are exempt from a Conditional 
Access policy requiring MFA for all users.

Remediation
Remediate from Azure Portal 
1. Log in to the Azure portal. 
2. This can be remediated by enabling MFA for user, Removing user access or 
Reducing access of managed identities attached to virtual machines. 
Case I : Enable MFA for users having access on virtual machines. 
1. Go to Microsoft Entra ID. 
2. For Per-user MFA: 
a) Under Manage, click Users. 
b) Click Per-user MFA. 
c) For each user requiring remediation, check the box next to their 
name. 
d) Click Enable MFA, then Click Enable. 
3. For Conditional Access: 
a) Under Manage, click Security. 
b) Under Protect, click Conditional Access. 
c) Update the Conditional Access policy requiring MFA for all users, 
removing each user requiring remediation from the Exclude list. 
Case II : Removing user access on a virtual machine. 
1. Select the Subscription, then click on Access control (IAM). 
2. Select Role assignments and search for Virtual Machine 
Administrator Login or Virtual Machine User Login or any role 
that provides access to log into virtual machines. 
3. Click on Role Name, Select Assignments, and remove identities with no 
MFA configured. 
Case III : Reducing access of managed identities attached to virtual machines. 
1. Select the Subscription, then click on Access control (IAM). 
2. Select Role Assignments from the top menu and apply filters on 
Assignment type as Privileged administrator roles and Type as 
Virtual Machines. 
3. Click on Role Name, Select Assignments, and remove identities access 
make sure this follows the least privileges principal.

Key Takeaways
- Integrating multi-factor authentication (MFA) as part of the organizational policy can  greatly reduce the risk of an identity gaining control of valid credentials that may be  used for additional tactics such as initial access, lateral movement, and collecting  information.
- MFA can also be used to restrict access to cloud resources and APIs.
- An Adversary may log into accessible cloud services within a compromised environment  using Valid Accounts that are synchronized to move laterally and perform actions with  the virtual machine's managed identity.
