16.2: Configure Centralized Point of Authentication

Overview
This security setting determines the period of time (in days) that a password must be 
used before the user can change it. You can set a value between 1 and 998 days, or 
you can allow changes immediately by setting the number of days to 0. 
The recommended state for this setting is: 1 or more day(s)).

Why This Matters
Users may have favorite passwords that they like to use because they are easy to 
remember and they believe that their password choice is secure from compromise. 
Unfortunately, passwords are compromised and if an attacker is targeting a specific 
individual's user account, with foreknowledge of data about that user, reuse of old 
passwords can cause a security breach. To address password reuse a combination of 
security settings is required. Using this policy setting with the Enforce password history 
setting prevents the easy reuse of old passwords. For example, if you configure the 
Enforce password history setting to ensure that users cannot reuse any of their last 12 
passwords, they could change their password 13 times in a few minutes and reuse the 
password they started with, unless you also configure the Minimum password age 
setting to a number that is greater than 0. You must configure this policy setting to a 
number that is greater than 0 for the Enforce password history setting to be effective.

Audit Steps
1. Navigate to the following registry location and note the WinningProvider GUID. 
This value confirms under which User GUID the policy is set. 
HKLM\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\PolicyManager\current\device\DeviceLock:MinimumPasswo rdAge_WinningProvider 
2. Navigate to the following registry location and confirm the value is set to 0. 
HKLM\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\PolicyManager\Providers\{GUID}\Default\Device\DeviceL
ock:MinimumPasswordAge

Remediation
To establish the recommended configuration via configuration profiles, set the following 
Settings Catalog path to 1 (or more day(s)): 
Device Lock\Minimum Password Age

Key Takeaways
- Users may have favorite passwords that they like to use because they are easy to  remember and they believe that their password choice is secure from compromise.
- Unfortunately, passwords are compromised and if an attacker is targeting a specific  individual's user account, with foreknowledge of data about that user, reuse of old  passwords can cause a security breach.
- To address password reuse a combination of  security settings is required.
