16.4: Encrypt or Hash all Authentication Credentials (and related controls)

Overview
IP source routing is a mechanism that allows the sender to determine the IP route that a 
datagram should follow through the network. 
The recommended state for this setting is: Enabled: Highest protection, source 
routing is completely disabled.

This policy setting determines whether packet signing is required by the SMB server 
component. Enable this policy setting in a mixed environment to prevent downstream 
clients from using the workstation as a network server. 
The recommended state for this setting is: Enabled.

LAN Manager (LM) was a family of early Microsoft client/server software (predating 
Windows NT) that allowed users to link personal computers together on a single 
network. LM network capabilities included transparent file and print sharing, user 
security features, and network administration tools. In Active Directory domains, the 
Kerberos protocol is the default authentication protocol. However, if the Kerberos 
protocol is not negotiated for some reason, Active Directory will use LM, NTLM, or 
NTLMv2. LAN Manager authentication includes the LM, NTLM, and NTLM version 2 
(NTLMv2) variants, and is the protocol that is used to authenticate all Windows clients 
when they perform the following operations: 
• 
Join a domain 
• 
Authenticate between Active Directory forests 
• 
Authenticate to down-level domains 
• 
Authenticate to computers that do not run Windows 2000, Windows Server 2003, 
or Windows XP 
• 
Authenticate to computers that are not in the domain 
The Network security: LAN Manager authentication level setting determines which 
challenge/response authentication protocol is used for network logons. This choice 
affects the level of authentication protocol used by clients, the level of session security 
negotiated, and the level of authentication accepted by servers. 
The recommended state for this setting is: Send LM and NTLMv2 responses only. 
Refuse LM and NTLM.

Why This Matters
An attacker could use source routed packets to obscure their identity and location. 
Source routing allows a computer that sends a packet to specify the route that the 
packet takes.

Session hijacking uses tools that allow attackers who have access to the same network 
as the client or server to interrupt, end, or steal a session in progress. Attackers can 
potentially intercept and modify unsigned SMB packets and then modify the traffic and 
forward it so that the server might perform undesirable actions. Alternatively, the 
attacker could pose as the server or client after legitimate authentication and gain 
unauthorized access to data. 
SMB is the resource sharing protocol that is supported by many Windows operating 
systems. It is the basis of NetBIOS and many other protocols. SMB signatures 
authenticate both users and the servers that host the data. If either side fails the 
authentication process, data transmission will not take place.

Windows 2000 and Windows XP clients were configured by default to send LM and 
NTLM authentication responses (Windows 95-based and Windows 98-based clients 
only send LM). The default settings in OSes predating Windows Vista / Windows Server 
2008 (non-R2) allowed all clients to authenticate with servers and use their resources. 
However, this meant that LM responses - the weakest form of authentication response - 
were sent over the network, and it was potentially possible for attackers to sniff that 
traffic to more easily reproduce the user's password. 
The Windows 95, Windows 98, and Windows NT operating systems cannot use the 
Kerberos version 5 protocol for authentication. For this reason, in a Windows Server 
2003 domain, these computers authenticate by default with both the LM and NTLM 
protocols for network authentication. You can enforce a more secure authentication 
protocol for Windows 95, Windows 98, and Windows NT by using NTLMv2. For the 
logon process, NTLMv2 uses a secure channel to protect the authentication process. 
Even if you use NTLMv2 for older clients and servers, Windows-based clients and 
servers that are members of the domain will use the Kerberos authentication protocol to 
authenticate with Windows Server 2003 or newer Domain Controllers. For these 
reasons, it is strongly preferred to restrict the use of LM & NTLM (non-v2) as much as 
possible.

Audit Steps
For Encrypt or Hash all Authentication Credentials:
Navigate to the UI Path articulated in the Remediation section and confirm it is set as 
prescribed. This policy setting is backed by the following registry location with a 
REG_DWORD value of 2. 
HKLM\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\Tcpip6\Parameters:DisableIPSourceRouti ng

For Encrypt or Hash all Authentication Credentials:
Navigate to the UI Path articulated in the Remediation section and confirm it is set as 
prescribed. This policy setting is backed by the following registry location with a 
REG_DWORD value of 1. 
HKLM\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\LanManServer\Parameters:RequireSecurit ySignature

For Encrypt or Hash all Authentication Credentials:
Navigate to the UI Path articulated in the Remediation section and confirm it is set as 
prescribed. This policy setting is backed by the following registry location with a 
REG_DWORD value of 5. 
HKLM\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\Lsa:LmCompatibilityLevel

Remediation
For Encrypt or Hash all Authentication Credentials:
To establish the recommended configuration via configuration profiles, set the following 
Settings Catalog path to Enabled: Highest protection, source routing is 
completely disabled. 
Administrative Templates\MSS (Legacy)\MSS: (DisableIPSourceRouting IPv6) IP 
source routing protection level (protects against packet spoofing)

For Encrypt or Hash all Authentication Credentials:
To establish the recommended configuration via configuration profiles, set the following 
Settings Catalog path to Enabled: 
Local Policies Security Options\Microsoft network server: Digitally sign 
communications (always)

For Encrypt or Hash all Authentication Credentials:
To establish the recommended configuration via configuration profiles, set the following 
Settings Catalog path to: Send LM and NTLMv2 responses only. Refuse LM and 
NTLM: 
Local Policies Security Options\Network security: LAN Manager authentication 
level

Key Takeaways
- An attacker could use source routed packets to obscure their identity and location.
- Source routing allows a computer that sends a packet to specify the route that the  packet takes.
- Session hijacking uses tools that allow attackers who have access to the same network  as the client or server to interrupt, end, or steal a session in progress.
