4.4: MS Security Guide (and related controls)

Overview
This setting controls whether local accounts can be used for remote administration via 
network logon (e.g., NET USE, connecting to C$, etc.). Local accounts are at high risk 
for credential theft when the same account and password is configured on multiple 
systems. Enabling this policy significantly reduces that risk. 
Enabled: Applies UAC token-filtering to local accounts on network logons. Membership 
in powerful group such as Administrators is disabled and powerful privileges are 
removed from the resulting access token. This configures the 
LocalAccountTokenFilterPolicy registry value to 0. This is the default behavior for 
Windows. 
Disabled: Allows local accounts to have full administrative rights when authenticating 
via network logon, by configuring the LocalAccountTokenFilterPolicy registry value 
to 1. 
For more information about local accounts and credential theft, review the "Mitigating 
Pass-the-Hash (PtH) Attacks and Other Credential Theft Techniques" documents. 
For more information about LocalAccountTokenFilterPolicy, see Microsoft 
Knowledge Base article 951016: Description of User Account Control and remote 
restrictions in Windows Vista. 
The recommended state for this setting is: Enabled.

The built-in local administrator account is a well-known account name that attackers will 
target. It is recommended to choose another name for this account, and to avoid names 
that denote administrative or elevated access accounts. Be sure to also change the 
default description for the local administrator (through the Computer Management 
console).

This policy setting configures the Windows LAPS Password Settings policy for 
password length. 
Each additional character in a password increases its complexity exponentially. For 
instance, a seven-character, all lower-case alphabetic password would have 26 to the 
power of 7 (approximately 8 x 10 to the power of 9 or 8 billion) possible combinations. 
At 1,000,000 attempts per second (a capability of many password-cracking utilities), it 
would only take 133 minutes to crack. A seven-character alphabetic password with case 
sensitivity has 52 to the power of 7 combinations. A seven-character case-sensitive 
alphanumeric password without punctuation has 627 combinations. An eight-character 
password has 26 to the power of 8 (or 2 x 10 to the power of 11) possible combinations. 
Although this might seem to be a large number, at 1,000,000 attempts per second it 
would take only 59 hours to try all possible passwords. Remember, these times will 
significantly increase for passwords that use ALT characters and other special keyboard 
characters such as "!" or "@". Proper use of the password settings can help make it 
difficult to mount a brute force attack. 
The recommended state for this setting is: Configured: 15 or more. 
Note: Organizations that utilize third-party commercial software to manage unique & 
complex local Administrator passwords on domain members may opt to disregard these 
LAPS recommendations. 
Note #2: Windows LAPS does not support standalone computers - they must be joined 
to an Active Directory domain or Entra ID (formerly Azure Active Directory).

Why This Matters
Local accounts are at high risk for credential theft when the same account and 
password is configured on multiple systems. Ensuring this policy is Enabled significantly 
reduces that risk.

The Administrator account exists on all computers that run the Windows 2000 or newer 
operating systems. If you rename this account, it is slightly more difficult for 
unauthorized persons to guess this privileged user name and password combination. 
The built-in Administrator account cannot be locked out, regardless of how many times 
an attacker might use a bad password. This capability makes the Administrator account 
a popular target for brute force attacks that attempt to guess passwords. The value of 
this countermeasure is lessened because this account has a well-known SID, and there 
are third-party tools that allow authentication by using the SID rather than the account 
name. Therefore, even if you rename the Administrator account, an attacker could 
launch a brute force attack by using the SID to log on.

Due to the difficulty in managing local Administrator passwords, many organizations 
choose to use the same password on all workstations and/or Member Servers when 
deploying them. This creates a serious attack surface security risk because if an 
attacker manages to compromise one system and learn the password to its local 
Administrator account, then they can leverage that account to instantly gain access to 
all other computers that also use that password for their local Administrator account.

Audit Steps
For MS Security Guide:
Navigate to the UI Path articulated in the Remediation section and confirm it is set as 
prescribed. This policy setting is backed by the following registry location with a 
REG_DWORD value of 0. 
HKLM\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Policies\System:LocalAccountTo kenFilterPolicy

For Use Unique Passwords:
Navigate to the UI Path articulated in the Remediation section and confirm it is set as 
prescribed.

For Use Unique Passwords:
Navigate to the UI Path articulated in the Remediation section and confirm it is set as 
prescribed. This policy setting is backed by the following registry location with a 
REG_DWORD value of 15. 
HKLM\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Policies\LAPS:PasswordLength

Remediation
For MS Security Guide:
To establish the recommended configuration via configuration profiles, set the following 
Settings Catalog path to Enabled. 
Administrative Templates\MS Security Guide\Apply UAC restrictions to local 
accounts on network logons

For Use Unique Passwords:
To establish the recommended configuration via configuration profiles, set the following 
Settings Catalog path: 
Local Policies Security Options\Accounts: Rename administrator account

For Use Unique Passwords:
To establish the recommended configuration from Microsoft Intune Admin Center: 
1. Navigate to Endpoint security > Account protection. 
2. Create or edit a LAPS policy type Local admin password solution (Windows 
LAPS). 
3. Set Password Length to Configured: 15 (or more).

Key Takeaways
- Local accounts are at high risk for credential theft when the same account and  password is configured on multiple systems.
- Ensuring this policy is Enabled significantly  reduces that risk.
- The Administrator account exists on all computers that run the Windows 2000 or newer  operating systems.
