4.8: Log and Alert on Changes to Administrative Group

Overview
This policy setting allows other users on the network to connect to the computer and is 
required by various network protocols that include Server Message Block (SMB)-based 
protocols, NetBIOS, Common Internet File System (CIFS), and Component Object 
Model Plus (COM+). 
The recommended state for this setting is: *S-1-5-32-544 and *S-1-5-32-555 
(Administrators, Remote Desktop Users). 
Note: If your organization is using Microsoft Defender for Identity (formerly Azure 
Advanced Threat Protection (Azure ATP)), the (organization-named) Defender for 
Identity Directory Service Account (DSA), will also need to be granted the same Access 
from network User Right Assignment. For more information on adding the service 
account please see Make sure the DSA is allowed to access computers from the 
network in Microsoft Defender for Identity | Microsoft Docs.

Why This Matters
Users who can connect from their computer to the network can access resources on 
target computers for which they have permission. For example, the Access this 
computer from the network user right is required for users to connect to shared 
printers and folders. If this user right is assigned to the Everyone group, then anyone 
will be able to read the files in those shared folders. However, this situation is unlikely 
for new installations of Windows Server 2003 with Service Pack 1 (SP1), because the 
default share and NTFS permissions in Windows Server 2003 do not include the 
Everyone group. This vulnerability may have a higher level of risk for computers that 
you upgrade from Windows NT 4.0 or Windows 2000, because the default permissions 
for these operating systems are not as restrictive as the default permissions in Windows 
Server 2003.

Audit Steps
Navigate to the Local Security Policy and confirm it is set as prescribed. 
Security Settings\Local Policies\User Rights Assignment\Access this computer 
from the network

Remediation
To establish the recommended configuration via configuration profiles, set the following 
Settings Catalog path to *S-1-5-32-544 and *S-1-5-32-555 (Administrators, Remote 
Desktop Users). 
User Rights\Access From Network 
Note: Include only one User or Group per line in the Settings Catalog configuration 
screen.

Key Takeaways
- Users who can connect from their computer to the network can access resources on  target computers for which they have permission.
- For example, the Access this  computer from the network user right is required for users to connect to shared  printers and folders.
- If this user right is assigned to the Everyone group, then anyone  will be able to read the files in those shared folders.
