16.10: Ensure All Accounts Have An Expiration Date (and related controls)

Overview
This policy setting determines the type of PIN or password this is required on a system. 
The recommended state for this setting is: Password or Alphanumeric PIN 
required. 
Note: This policy only applies if the DevicePasswordEnabled policy is set to 1. This is a 
pre-requisite for Alphanumeric Device Password Required in the settings catalog.

This policy setting determines the number of renewed, unique passwords that have to 
be associated with a user account before you can reuse an old password. In an Intune 
managed environment this setting applies to local user accounts and not Entra ID 
accounts. 
The value includes the user's current password. This value denotes that with a setting of 
1, the user can't reuse their current password when choosing a new password, while a 
setting of 5 means that a user can't set their new password to their current password or 
any of their previous four passwords. 
The recommended state for this setting is: 24 or more password(s).

This policy setting configures the Windows LAPS Password Settings policy for 
password complexity. 
Each additional character in a password increases its complexity exponentially. For 
instance, a seven-character, all lower-case alphabetic password would have 26 to the 
power of 7 (approximately 8 x 10 to the power of 9 or 8 billion) possible combinations. 
At 1,000,000 attempts per second (a capability of many password-cracking utilities), it 
would only take 133 minutes to crack. A seven-character alphabetic password with case 
sensitivity has 52 to the power of 7 combinations. A seven-character case-sensitive 
alphanumeric password without punctuation has 627 combinations. An eight-character 
password has 26 to the power of 8 (or 2 x 10 to the power of 11) possible combinations. 
Although this might seem to be a large number, at 1,000,000 attempts per second it 
would take only 59 hours to try all possible passwords. Remember, these times will 
significantly increase for passwords that use ALT characters and other special keyboard 
characters such as "!" or "@". Proper use of the password settings can help make it 
difficult to mount a brute force attack. 
The recommended state for this setting is: Large letters + small letters + 
numbers + special characters. 
Note: Organizations that utilize third-party commercial software to manage unique & 
complex local Administrator passwords on domain members may opt to disregard these 
LAPS recommendations. 
Note #2: Windows LAPS does not support standalone computers - they must be joined 
to an Active Directory domain or Entra ID (formerly Azure Active Directory).

Why This Matters
This is a pre-requisite for Min Device Password Complex Characters, which enforces a 
more complex local user and Microsoft account passwords. 
Note: This setting has no impact on Entra ID accounts.

The longer a user uses the same password, the greater the chance that an attacker can 
determine the password through brute force attacks. Also, any accounts that may have 
been compromised will remain exploitable for as long as the password is left 
unchanged. If password changes are required but password reuse is not prevented, or if 
users continually reuse a small number of passwords, the effectiveness of a good 
password policy is greatly reduced. 
If you specify a low number for this policy setting, users will be able to use the same 
small number of passwords repeatedly. If you do not also configure the Minimum 
password age setting, users might repeatedly change their passwords until they can 
reuse their original password.

Due to the difficulty in managing local Administrator passwords, many organizations 
choose to use the same password on all workstations and/or Member Servers when 
deploying them. This creates a serious attack surface security risk because if an 
attacker manages to compromise one system and learn the password to its local 
Administrator account, then they can leverage that account to instantly gain access to 
all other computers that also use that password for their local Administrator account.

Audit Steps
For Ensure All Accounts Have An Expiration Date:
1. Navigate to the following registry location and note the WinningProvider GUID. 
This value confirms under which User GUID the policy is set. 
HKLM\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\PolicyManager\current\device\DeviceLock:AlphanumericD
evicePasswordRequired_WinningProvider 
2. Navigate to the following registry location and confirm the value is set to 0. 
HKLM\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\PolicyManager\Providers\{GUID}\Default\Device\DeviceL
ock:AlphanumericDevicePasswordRequired

For Ensure All Accounts Have An Expiration Date:
1. Navigate to the following registry location and note the WinningProvider GUID. 
This value confirms under which User GUID the policy is set. 
HKLM\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\PolicyManager\current\device\DeviceLock:DevicePasswor dHistory_WinningProvider 
2. Navigate to the following registry location and confirm the value is set to 2. 
HKLM\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\PolicyManager\Providers\{GUID}\Default\Device\DeviceL
ock:DevicePasswordHistory

For Ensure All Accounts Have An Expiration Date:
Navigate to the UI Path articulated in the Remediation section and confirm it is set as 
prescribed. This policy setting is backed by the following registry location with a 
REG_DWORD value of 4. 
HKLM\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Policies\LAPS:PasswordComplexity

Remediation
For Ensure All Accounts Have An Expiration Date:
To establish the recommended configuration via configuration profiles, set the following 
Settings Catalog path to Password or Alphanumeric PIN required: 
Device Lock\Device Password Enabled: Alphanumeric Device Password Required

For Ensure All Accounts Have An Expiration Date:
To establish the recommended configuration via configuration profiles, set the following 
Settings Catalog path to 24 or more password(s): 
Device Lock\Device Password Enabled: Device Password History

For Ensure All Accounts Have An Expiration Date:
To establish the recommended configuration from Microsoft Intune Admin Center: 
1. Navigate to Endpoint security > Account protection. 
2. Create or edit a LAPS policy type Local admin password solution (Windows 
LAPS). 
3. Set Password Complexity to Large letters + small letters + numbers 
+ special characters.

Key Takeaways
- This is a pre-requisite for Min Device Password Complex Characters, which enforces a  more complex local user and Microsoft account passwords.
- Note: This setting has no impact on Entra ID accounts.
- The longer a user uses the same password, the greater the chance that an attacker can  determine the password through brute force attacks.
