4.10.13.1: (L1) Ensure 'Boot-Start Driver Initialization Policy' is set

Overview
This policy setting allows you to specify which boot-start drivers are initialized based on 
a classification determined by an Early Launch Antimalware boot-start driver. The Early 
Launch Antimalware boot-start driver can return the following classifications for each 
boot-start driver: 
• 
Good: The driver has been signed and has not been tampered with. 
• 
Bad: The driver has been identified as malware. It is recommended that you do 
not allow known bad drivers to be initialized. 
• 
Bad, but required for boot: The driver has been identified as malware, but 
the computer cannot successfully boot without loading this driver. 
• 
Unknown: This driver has not been attested to by your malware detection 
application and has not been classified by the Early Launch Antimalware bootstart driver. 
If you enable this policy setting you will be able to choose which boot-start drivers to 
initialize the next time the computer is started. 
If your malware detection application does not include an Early Launch Antimalware 
boot-start driver or if your Early Launch Antimalware boot-start driver has been 
disabled, this setting has no effect and all boot-start drivers are initialized. 
The recommended state for this setting is: Enabled: Good, unknown and bad but 
critical.

Why This Matters
This policy setting helps reduce the impact of malware that has already infected your 
system.

Audit Steps
Navigate to the UI Path articulated in the Remediation section and confirm it is set as 
prescribed. This policy setting is backed by the following registry location with a 
REG_DWORD value of 3. 
HKLM\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Policies\EarlyLaunch:DriverLoadPolicy

Remediation
To establish the recommended configuration via configuration profiles, set the following 
Settings Catalog path to Enabled: `Good, unknown and bad but critical. 
Administrative Templates\System\Early Launch Antimalware\Boot-Start Driver 
Initialization Policy

Key Takeaways
- This policy setting helps reduce the impact of malware that has already infected your  system.
