4.5.1: (L1) Ensure 'MSS: (AutoAdminLogon) Enable Automatic

Overview
This setting is separate from the Welcome screen feature in Windows XP and Windows 
Vista; if that feature is disabled, this setting is not disabled. If you configure a computer 
for automatic logon, anyone who can physically gain access to the computer can also 
gain access to everything that is on the computer, including any network or networks to 
which the computer is connected. Also, if you enable automatic logon, the password is 
stored in the registry in plaintext, and the specific registry key that stores this value is 
remotely readable by the Authenticated Users group. 
For additional information, see Microsoft Knowledge Base article 324737: How to turn 
on automatic logon in Windows. 
The recommended state for this setting is: Disabled.

Why This Matters
If you configure a computer for automatic logon, anyone who can physically gain access 
to the computer can also gain access to everything that is on the computer, including 
any network or networks that the computer is connected to. Also, if you enable 
automatic logon, the password is stored in the registry in plaintext. The specific registry 
key that stores this setting is remotely readable by the Authenticated Users group. As a 
result, this entry is appropriate only if the computer is physically secured and if you 
ensure that untrusted users cannot remotely see the registry.

Audit Steps
Navigate to the UI Path articulated in the Remediation section and confirm it is set as 
prescribed. This policy setting is backed by the following registry location with a REG_SZ 
value of 0. 
HKLM\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows NT\CurrentVersion\Winlogon:AutoAdminLogon

Remediation
To establish the recommended configuration via configuration profiles, set the following 
Settings Catalog path to `Disabled. 
Administrative Templates\MSS (Legacy)\MSS: (AutoAdminLogon) Enable Automatic 
Logon (not recommended)

Key Takeaways
- If you configure a computer for automatic logon, anyone who can physically gain access  to the computer can also gain access to everything that is on the computer, including  any network or networks that the computer is connected to.
- Also, if you enable  automatic logon, the password is stored in the registry in plaintext.
- The specific registry  key that stores this setting is remotely readable by the Authenticated Users group.
