0.0: Explicitly Not Mapped (and related controls)

Overview
This policy setting allows you to specify a list of Plug and Play hardware IDs and 
compatible IDs for devices that Windows is prevented from installing. This policy setting 
takes precedence over any other policy setting that allows Windows to install a device. 
If you enable this policy setting, Windows is prevented from installing a device whose 
hardware ID or compatible ID appears in the list you create. If you enable this policy 
setting on a remote desktop server, the policy setting affects redirection of the specified 
devices from a remote desktop client to the remote desktop server. 
If you disable or do not configure this policy setting, devices can be installed and 
updated as allowed or prevented by other policy settings. 
The recommended state for this setting is: PCI\CC_0C0A 
Note: This device ID is for Thunderbolt controllers. The USB Type-C (USB-C) port 
standard that is now common in many computers, especially laptops, utilizes 
Thunderbolt technology, and therefore may be affected by this restriction. If your 
organization needs to use USB-C extensively, you may need to decide, internally, to 
allow yourselves an exception to this recommendation. However, please ensure that all 
necessary decision-makers have accepted the increased risk of BitLocker encryption 
key theft (and therefore data theft) via malicious Thunderbolt devices (when left 
unattended), by doing so. 
Note #2: In versions of Windows 10 Release 1803 (or newer), there is a new control 
named Enumeration policy for external devices incompatible with Kernel DMA 
Protection available that mitigates much of the risk for malicious devices that may 
perform Direct Memory Access (DMA) attacks. The newer control is also now part of the 
Windows 10 CIS benchmark, in section 18.8.26. However, if your environment still 
contains any Windows 10 Release 1709 (or older) workstations, then the newer control 
will not work, so this setting remains important to disable Thunderbolt devices on those 
systems.

This policy setting allows you to specify a list of device setup class globally unique 
identifiers (GUIDs) for device drivers that Windows is prevented from installing. This 
policy setting takes precedence over any other policy setting that allows Windows to 
install a device. 
If you enable this policy setting, Windows is prevented from installing or updating device 
drivers whose device setup class GUIDs appear in the list you create. If you enable this 
policy setting on a remote desktop server, the policy setting affects redirection of the 
specified devices from a remote desktop client to the remote desktop server. 
If you disable or do not configure this policy setting, Windows can install and update 
devices as allowed or prevented by other policy settings. 
The recommended state for this setting is: Enabled.

Why This Matters
A BitLocker-protected computer may be vulnerable to Direct Memory Access (DMA) 
attacks when the computer is turned on or is in the Standby power state - this includes 
when the workstation is locked. 
BitLocker with TPM-only authentication lets a computer enter the power-on state without 
any pre-boot authentication. Therefore, an attacker may be able to perform DMA 
attacks. 
This issue is documented in Microsoft Knowledge Base article 2516445: Blocking the 
SBP-2 driver and Thunderbolt controllers to reduce 1394 DMA and Thunderbolt DMA 
threats to BitLocker.

A BitLocker-protected computer may be vulnerable to Direct Memory Access (DMA) 
attacks when the computer is turned on or is in the Standby power state - this includes 
when the workstation is locked. 
BitLocker with TPM-only authentication lets a computer enter the power-on state without 
any pre-boot authentication. Therefore, an attacker may be able to perform DMA 
attacks. 
This issue is documented in Microsoft Knowledge Base article 2516445: Blocking the 
SBP-2 driver and Thunderbolt controllers to reduce 1394 DMA and Thunderbolt DMA 
threats to BitLocker.

Audit Steps
For Explicitly Not Mapped:
Navigate to the UI Path articulated in the Remediation section and confirm it is set as 
prescribed. This policy setting is backed by the following registry location with a REG_SZ 
value of PCI\CC_0C0A. 
HKLM\SOFTWARE\Policies\Microsoft\Windows\DeviceInstall\Restrictions\DenyDevic eIDs:1

For Explicitly Not Mapped:
Navigate to the UI Path articulated in the Remediation section and confirm it is set as 
prescribed. This policy setting is backed by the following registry location with a 
REG_DWORD value of 1. 
HKLM\SOFTWARE\Policies\Microsoft\Windows\DeviceInstall\Restrictions:DenyDevic eClasses

Remediation
For Explicitly Not Mapped:
To establish the recommended configuration via configuration profiles, set the following 
Settings Catalog path to Enabled, and add PCI\CC_0C0A to the Device IDs list. 
Administrative Templates\System\Device Installation\Device Installation 
Restrictions\Prevent installation of devices that match any of these device 
IDs

For Explicitly Not Mapped:
To establish the recommended configuration via configuration profiles, set the following 
Settings Catalog path to Enabled. 
Administrative Templates\System\Device Installation\Device Installation 
Restrictions\Prevent installation of devices using drivers that match these 
device setup classes

Key Takeaways
- A BitLocker-protected computer may be vulnerable to Direct Memory Access (DMA)  attacks when the computer is turned on or is in the Standby power state - this includes  when the workstation is locked.
- BitLocker with TPM-only authentication lets a computer enter the power-on state without  any pre-boot authentication.
- Therefore, an attacker may be able to perform DMA  attacks.
