103.1: (L1) Ensure 'Allow Auto Update' is set to 'Enabled'

Overview
This policy setting specifies whether computers in your environment will receive security 
updates from Windows Update or WSUS. If you configure this policy setting to Enabled, 
the operating system will recognize when a network connection is available and then 
use the network connection to search Windows Update or your designated intranet site 
for updates that apply to them. 
After this this policy setting is set to Enabled, select one of the following options in the 
Configure Automatic Updates Properties dialog box to specify how the service will work: 
• 
2 - Auto install and restart. 
• 
3 - Auto install and restart at a specified time. (Default) 
• 
4 - Auto install and restart without end-user control. 
The recommended state for this setting is: Enabled and never "Turn off automatic 
updates" 
Note: The sub-setting "Allow Auto Update:" has 6 possible values – not all of them are 
valid depending on specific organizational needs, however if feasible we suggest using 
a value of 2, 3, or 4. The only scored requirement is to not turn off automatic 
updates (5). 
Note #2: Organizations that utilize a third--party solution for patching may choose to 
exempt themselves from this recommendation, and instead configure it to Disabled so 
that the native Windows Update mechanism does not interfere with the third--party 
patching process. 
Warning: If option 3 or 4 is not selected, then the ScheduledInstallDay 
recommendation will not take effect and an exception to that recommendation will be 
needed.

Why This Matters
Although each version of Windows is thoroughly tested before release, it is possible that 
problems will be discovered after the products are shipped. The Configure Automatic 
Updates setting can help you ensure that the computers in your environment will always 
have the most recent critical operating system updates and service packs installed.

Audit Steps
Navigate to the UI Path articulated in the Remediation section and confirm it is set as 
prescribed. This policy setting is backed by the following registry location with a 
REG_DWORD value of anything other than 5. 
HKLM\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\PolicyManager\current\device\Update:AllowAutoUpdate

Remediation
To establish the recommended configuration via configuration profiles, set the following 
Settings Catalog path to anything other than "Turn off automatic updates". 
Windows Update For Business\Allow Auto Update

Key Takeaways
- Although each version of Windows is thoroughly tested before release, it is possible that  problems will be discovered after the products are shipped.
- The Configure Automatic  Updates setting can help you ensure that the computers in your environment will always  have the most recent critical operating system updates and service packs installed.
