0.0: Explicitly Not Mapped (and related controls)

Overview
This policy setting changes the operational behavior of the Responder network protocol 
driver. 
The Responder allows a computer to participate in Link Layer Topology Discovery 
requests so that it can be discovered and located on the network. It also allows a 
computer to participate in Quality-of-Service activities such as bandwidth estimation and 
network health analysis. 
The recommended state for this setting is: Disabled.

This policy setting controls whether computers will show a warning and a security 
elevation prompt when users are updating drivers for an existing connection using Point 
and Print. 
The recommended state for this setting is: Enabled: Show warning and elevation 
prompt. 
Note: On August 10, 2021, Microsoft announced a Point and Print Default Behavior 
Change which modifies the default Point and Print driver installation and update 
behavior to require Administrator privileges. This is documented in KB5005652—
Manage new Point and Print default driver installation behavior (CVE-2021-34481). This 
change overrides all Point and Print Group Policy settings and ensures that only 
Administrators can install printer drivers from a print server using Point and Print.

This policy setting allows you to specify a list of Plug and Play hardware IDs and 
compatible IDs for devices that Windows is prevented from installing. This policy setting 
takes precedence over any other policy setting that allows Windows to install a device. 
If you enable this policy setting, Windows is prevented from installing a device whose 
hardware ID or compatible ID appears in the list you create. If you enable this policy 
setting on a remote desktop server, the policy setting affects redirection of the specified 
devices from a remote desktop client to the remote desktop server. 
If you disable or do not configure this policy setting, devices can be installed and 
updated as allowed or prevented by other policy settings. 
The recommended state for this setting is: True (checked). 
Note: In versions of Windows 10 Release 1803 (or newer), there is a new control 
named Enumeration policy for external devices incompatible with Kernel DMA 
Protection available that mitigates much of the risk for malicious devices that may 
perform Direct Memory Access (DMA) attacks. The newer control is also now part of the 
Windows 10 CIS benchmark, in section 18.8.26. However, if your environment still 
contains any Windows 10 Release 1709 (or older) workstations, then the newer control 
will not work, so this setting remains important to disable Thunderbolt devices on those 
systems.

Why This Matters
To help protect from potentially discovering and connecting to unauthorized devices, 
this setting should be disabled to prevent responding to network traffic for network 
topology discovery.

Enabling Windows User Account Control (UAC) for updating existing print drivers can 
help mitigate the PrintNightmare vulnerability (CVE-2021-34527) and other Print 
Spooler attacks. 
Although the Point and Print default driver installation behavior overrides this setting, it 
is important to configure this as a backstop in the event that behavior is reversed.

A BitLocker-protected computer may be vulnerable to Direct Memory Access (DMA) 
attacks when the computer is turned on or is in the Standby power state - this includes 
when the workstation is locked. 
BitLocker with TPM-only authentication lets a computer enter the power-on state without 
any pre-boot authentication. Therefore, an attacker may be able to perform DMA 
attacks. 
This issue is documented in Microsoft Knowledge Base article 2516445: Blocking the 
SBP-2 driver and Thunderbolt controllers to reduce 1394 DMA and Thunderbolt DMA 
threats to BitLocker.

Audit Steps
For Explicitly Not Mapped:
Navigate to the UI Path articulated in the Remediation section and confirm it is set as 
prescribed. This policy setting is backed by the following registry locations with a 
REG_DWORD value of 0. 
HKLM\SOFTWARE\Policies\Microsoft\Windows\LLTD:AllowRspndrOnDomain 
HKLM\SOFTWARE\Policies\Microsoft\Windows\LLTD:AllowRspndrOnPublicNet 
HKLM\SOFTWARE\Policies\Microsoft\Windows\LLTD:EnableRspndr 
HKLM\SOFTWARE\Policies\Microsoft\Windows\LLTD:ProhibitRspndrOnPrivateNet

For Explicitly Not Mapped:
Navigate to the UI Path articulated in the Remediation section and confirm it is set as 
prescribed. This policy setting is backed by the following registry location with a 
REG_DWORD value of 0. 
HKLM\Software\Policies\Microsoft\Windows 
NT\Printers\PointAndPrint:UpdatePromptSettings

For Explicitly Not Mapped:
Navigate to the UI Path articulated in the Remediation section and confirm it is set as 
prescribed. This policy setting is backed by the following registry location with a 
REG_DWORD value of 1. 
HKLM\SOFTWARE\Policies\Microsoft\Windows\DeviceInstall\Restrictions:DenyDevic eIDsRetroactive

Remediation
For Explicitly Not Mapped:
To establish the recommended configuration via configuration profiles, set the following 
Settings Catalog path to Disabled. 
Administrative Templates\Network\Link-Layer Topology Discovery\Turn on 
Responder

For Explicitly Not Mapped:
To establish the recommended configuration via configuration profiles, set the following 
Settings Catalog path to Enabled: Show warning and elevation prompt. 
Administrative Templates\Printers\Point and Print Restrictions: When updating 
drivers for an existing connection

For Explicitly Not Mapped:
To establish the recommended configuration via configuration profiles, set the following 
Settings Catalog path to Enabled, and check the Also apply to matching devices 
that are already installed. button. 
Administrative Templates\System\Device Installation\Device Installation 
Restrictions\Prevent installation of devices that match any of these device 
IDs

Key Takeaways
- To help protect from potentially discovering and connecting to unauthorized devices,  this setting should be disabled to prevent responding to network traffic for network  topology discovery.
- Enabling Windows User Account Control (UAC) for updating existing print drivers can  help mitigate the PrintNightmare vulnerability (CVE-2021-34527) and other Print  Spooler attacks.
- Although the Point and Print default driver installation behavior overrides this setting, it  is important to configure this as a backstop in the event that behavior is reversed.
