6.2: Activate audit logging

Overview
The policy setting allows programs that run on behalf of a user to impersonate that user 
(or another specified account) so that they can act on behalf of the user. If this user right 
is required for this kind of impersonation, an unauthorized user will not be able to 
convince a client to connect—for example, by remote procedure call (RPC) or named 
pipes—to a service that they have created to impersonate that client, which could 
elevate the unauthorized user's permissions to administrative or system levels. 
Services that are started by the Service Control Manager have the built-in Service group 
added by default to their access tokens. COM servers that are started by the COM 
infrastructure and configured to run under a specific account also have the Service 
group added to their access tokens. As a result, these processes are assigned this user 
right when they are started. 
Also, a user can impersonate an access token if any of the following conditions exist: 
• 
The access token that is being impersonated is for this user. 
• 
The user, in this logon session, logged on to the network with explicit credentials 
to create the access token. 
• 
The requested level is less than Impersonate, such as Anonymous or Identify. 
An attacker with the Impersonate a client after authentication user right could create 
a service, trick a client to make them connect to the service, and then impersonate that 
client to elevate the attacker's level of access to that of the client. 
The recommended state for this setting is: *S-1-5-32-544, *S-1-5-19, *S-1-5-20 and 
*S-1-5-6 (Administrators, LOCAL SERVICE, NETWORK SERVICE, SERVICE). 
Note: This user right is considered a "sensitive privilege" for the purposes of auditing.

Why This Matters
An attacker with the Impersonate a client after authentication user right could create 
a service, trick a client to make them connect to the service, and then impersonate that 
client to elevate the attacker's level of access to that of the client.

Audit Steps
Navigate to the Local Security Policy and confirm it is set as prescribed. 
Security Settings\Local Policies\User Rights Assignment\Impersonate a client 
after authentication

Remediation
To establish the recommended configuration via configuration profiles, set the following 
Settings Catalog path to *S-1-5-32-544, *S-1-5-19, *S-1-5-20 and *S-1-5-6 
(Administrators, LOCAL SERVICE, NETWORK SERVICE, SERVICE). 
User Rights\Impersonate Client 
Note: Include only one User or Group per line in the Settings Catalog configuration 
screen.

Key Takeaways
- An attacker with the Impersonate a client after authentication user right could create  a service, trick a client to make them connect to the service, and then impersonate that  client to elevate the attacker's level of access to that of the client.
