0.0: Explicitly Not Mapped (and related controls)

Overview
When enabled, this policy setting restricts anonymous access to only those shares and 
pipes that are named in the Network access: Named pipes that can be accessed 
anonymously and Network access: Shares that can be accessed anonymously 
settings. This policy setting controls null session access to shares on your computers by 
adding RestrictNullSessAccess with the value 1 in the 
HKLM\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\LanManServer\Parameters 
registry key. This registry value toggles null session shares on or off to control whether 
the server service restricts unauthenticated clients' access to named resources. 
The recommended state for this setting is: Enabled.

This policy setting allows you to restrict remote RPC connections to SAM. 
The recommended state for this setting is: Administrators: Remote Access: Allow. 
Note: A Windows 10 R1607, Server 2016 or newer OS is required to access and set 
this value in Group Policy. 
Note #2: This setting was originally only supported on Windows 10 R1607 or newer, 
then support for it was added to Windows 7 or newer via the March 2017 security 
patches. 
Note #3: If your organization is using Microsoft Defender for Identity (formerly Azure 
Advanced Threat Protection (Azure ATP)), the (organization-named) Defender for 
Identity Directory Service Account (DSA), will also need to be granted the same Remote 
Access: Allow permission. For more information on adding the service account please 
see Configure SAM-R to enable lateral movement path detection in Microsoft Defender 
for Identity | Microsoft Docs.

This policy setting determines whether Local System services that use Negotiate when 
reverting to NTLM authentication can use the computer identity. This policy is supported 
on at least Windows 7 or Windows Server 2008 R2. 
The recommended state for this setting is: Allow.

This setting determines if online identities are able to authenticate to this computer. 
The Public Key Cryptography Based User-to-User (PKU2U) protocol introduced in 
Windows 7 and Windows Server 2008 R2 is implemented as a security support provider 
(SSP). The SSP enables peer-to-peer authentication, particularly through the Windows 
7 media and file sharing feature called HomeGroup, which permits sharing between 
computers that are not members of a domain. 
With PKU2U, a new extension was introduced to the Negotiate authentication package, 
Spnego.dll. In previous versions of Windows, Negotiate decided whether to use 
Kerberos or NTLM for authentication. The extension SSP for Negotiate, Negoexts.dll, 
which is treated as an authentication protocol by Windows, supports Microsoft SSPs 
including PKU2U. 
When computers are configured to accept authentication requests by using online IDs, 
Negoexts.dll calls the PKU2U SSP on the computer that is used to log on. The 
PKU2U SSP obtains a local certificate and exchanges the policy between the peer 
computers. When validated on the peer computer, the certificate within the metadata is 
sent to the logon peer for validation and associates the user's certificate to a security 
token and the logon process completes. 
The recommended state for this setting is: Block.

Why This Matters
Null sessions are a weakness that can be exploited through shares (including the 
default shares) on computers in your environment.

To ensure that an unauthorized user cannot anonymously list local account names or 
groups and use the information to attempt to guess passwords or perform social 
engineering attacks. (Social engineering attacks try to deceive users in some way to 
obtain passwords or some form of security information.)

When connecting to computers running versions of Windows earlier than Windows Vista 
or Windows Server 2008 (non-R2), services running as Local System and using 
SPNEGO (Negotiate) that revert to NTLM use the computer identity. In Windows 7, if 
you are connecting to a computer running Windows Server 2008 or Windows Vista, 
then a system service uses either the computer identity or a NULL session. When 
connecting with a NULL session, a system-generated session key is created, which 
provides no protection but allows applications to sign and encrypt data without errors. 
When connecting with the computer identity, both signing and encryption is supported in 
order to provide data protection.

The PKU2U protocol is a peer-to-peer authentication protocol - authentication should be 
managed centrally in most managed networks.

Audit Steps
For Explicitly Not Mapped:
Navigate to the UI Path articulated in the Remediation section and confirm it is set as 
prescribed. This policy setting is backed by the following registry location with a 
REG_DWORD value of 1. 
HKLM\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\LanManServer\Parameters:RestrictNullSe ssAccess

For Explicitly Not Mapped:
Navigate to the UI Path articulated in the Remediation section and confirm it is set as 
prescribed. This policy setting is backed by the following registry location with a REG_SZ 
value of O:BAG:BAD:(A;;RC;;;BA). 
HKLM\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\Lsa:restrictremotesam 
O:BAG:BAD:(A;;RC;;;BA)

For Explicitly Not Mapped:
Navigate to the UI Path articulated in the Remediation section and confirm it is set as 
prescribed. This policy setting is backed by the following registry location with a 
REG_DWORD value of 1. 
HKLM\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\Lsa:UseMachineId

For Explicitly Not Mapped:
Navigate to the UI Path articulated in the Remediation section and confirm it is set as 
prescribed. This policy setting is backed by the following registry location with a 
REG_DWORD value of 0. 
HKLM\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\Lsa\pku2u:AllowOnlineID

Remediation
For Explicitly Not Mapped:
To establish the recommended configuration via configuration profiles, set the following 
Settings Catalog path to Enabled: 
Local Policies Security Options\Network access: Restrict anonymous access to 
Named Pipes and Shares

For Explicitly Not Mapped:
To establish the recommended configuration via configuration profiles, set the following 
Settings Catalog path to Administrators: Remote Access: Allow: 
Local Policies Security Options\Network access: Restrict clients allowed to 
make remote calls to SAM

For Explicitly Not Mapped:
To establish the recommended configuration via configuration profiles, set the following 
Settings Catalog path to Allow: 
Local Policies Security Options\Network security: Allow Local System to use 
computer identity for NTLM

For Explicitly Not Mapped:
To establish the recommended configuration via configuration profiles, set the following 
Settings Catalog path to Block: 
Local Policies Security Options\Network Security: Allow PKU2U authentication 
requests to this computer

Key Takeaways
- Null sessions are a weakness that can be exploited through shares (including the  default shares) on computers in your environment.
- To ensure that an unauthorized user cannot anonymously list local account names or  groups and use the information to attempt to guess passwords or perform social  engineering attacks.
- (Social engineering attacks try to deceive users in some way to  obtain passwords or some form of security information.
