4.10.9.1: .1 (BL) Ensure 'Prevent installation of devices that match

Overview
This policy setting allows you to specify a list of Plug and Play hardware IDs and 
compatible IDs for devices that Windows is prevented from installing. This policy setting 
takes precedence over any other policy setting that allows Windows to install a device. 
If you enable this policy setting, Windows is prevented from installing a device whose 
hardware ID or compatible ID appears in the list you create. If you enable this policy 
setting on a remote desktop server, the policy setting affects redirection of the specified 
devices from a remote desktop client to the remote desktop server. 
If you disable or do not configure this policy setting, devices can be installed and 
updated as allowed or prevented by other policy settings. 
The recommended state for this setting is: Enabled. 
Note: In versions of Windows 10 Release 1803 (or newer), there is a new control 
named Enumeration policy for external devices incompatible with Kernel DMA 
Protection available that mitigates much of the risk for malicious devices that may 
perform Direct Memory Access (DMA) attacks. The newer control is also now part of the 
Windows 10 CIS benchmark, in section 18.8.26. However, if your environment still 
contains any Windows 10 Release 1709 (or older) workstations, then the newer control 
will not work, so this setting remains important to disable Thunderbolt devices on those 
systems.

Why This Matters
A BitLocker-protected computer may be vulnerable to Direct Memory Access (DMA) 
attacks when the computer is turned on or is in the Standby power state - this includes 
when the workstation is locked. 
BitLocker with TPM-only authentication lets a computer enter the power-on state without 
any pre-boot authentication. Therefore, an attacker may be able to perform DMA 
attacks. 
This issue is documented in Microsoft Knowledge Base article 2516445: Blocking the 
SBP-2 driver and Thunderbolt controllers to reduce 1394 DMA and Thunderbolt DMA 
threats to BitLocker.

Audit Steps
Navigate to the UI Path articulated in the Remediation section and confirm it is set as 
prescribed. This policy setting is backed by the following registry location with a 
REG_DWORD value of 1. 
HKLM\SOFTWARE\Policies\Microsoft\Windows\DeviceInstall\Restrictions:DenyDevic eIDs

Remediation
To establish the recommended configuration via configuration profiles, set the following 
Settings Catalog path to Enabled. 
Administrative Templates\System\Device Installation\Device Installation 
Restrictions\Prevent installation of devices that match any of these device 
IDs

Key Takeaways
- A BitLocker-protected computer may be vulnerable to Direct Memory Access (DMA)  attacks when the computer is turned on or is in the Standby power state - this includes  when the workstation is locked.
- BitLocker with TPM-only authentication lets a computer enter the power-on state without  any pre-boot authentication.
- Therefore, an attacker may be able to perform DMA  attacks.
