0.0: Explicitly Not Mapped

Overview
This policy setting configures the Windows LAPS Password Settings policy for 
password age. 
Because attackers can crack passwords, the more frequently the password is changed 
the less opportunity an attacker has to use a cracked password. 
The recommended state for this setting is: Configured: 30 or fewer. 
Note: Organizations that utilize third-party commercial software to manage unique & 
complex local Administrator passwords on domain members may opt to disregard these 
LAPS recommendations. 
Note #2: Windows LAPS does not support standalone computers - they must be joined 
to an Active Directory domain or Entra ID (formerly Azure Active Directory).

Why This Matters
Due to the difficulty in managing local Administrator passwords, many organizations 
choose to use the same password on all workstations and/or Member Servers when 
deploying them. This creates a serious attack surface security risk because if an 
attacker manages to compromise one system and learn the password to its local 
Administrator account, then they can leverage that account to instantly gain access to 
all other computers that also use that password for their local Administrator account.

Audit Steps
Navigate to the UI Path articulated in the Remediation section and confirm it is set as 
prescribed. This policy setting is backed by the following registry location with a 
REG_DWORD value of 30. 
HKLM\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Policies\LAPS:PasswordAgeDays

Remediation
To establish the recommended configuration from Microsoft Intune Admin Center: 
1. Navigate to Endpoint security > Account protection. 
2. Create or edit a LAPS policy type Local admin password solution (Windows 
LAPS). 
3. Set Password Age Days to Configured: 30 (or fewer)

Key Takeaways
- Due to the difficulty in managing local Administrator passwords, many organizations  choose to use the same password on all workstations and/or Member Servers when  deploying them.
- This creates a serious attack surface security risk because if an  attacker manages to compromise one system and learn the password to its local  Administrator account, then they can leverage that account to instantly gain access to  all other computers that also use that password for their local Administrator account.
