0.0: Explicitly Not Mapped (and related controls)

Overview
This policy setting manages how queue-specific files are processed during printer 
installation. At printer installation time, a vendor-supplied installation application can 
specify a set of files, of any type, to be associated with a particular print queue. The files 
are downloaded to each client that connects to the print server. 
The recommended state for this setting is: Enabled: Limit Queue-specific files 
to Color profiles.

This policy setting controls whether computers will show a warning and a security 
elevation prompt when users are updating drivers for an existing connection using Point 
and Print. 
The recommended state for this setting is: Enabled: Show warning and elevation 
prompt. 
Note: On August 10, 2021, Microsoft announced a Point and Print Default Behavior 
Change which modifies the default Point and Print driver installation and update 
behavior to require Administrator privileges. This is documented in KB5005652—
Manage new Point and Print default driver installation behavior (CVE-2021-34481). This 
change overrides all Point and Print Group Policy settings and ensures that only 
Administrators can install printer drivers from a print server using Point and Print.

This policy setting allows you to specify a list of device setup class globally unique 
identifiers (GUIDs) for device drivers that Windows is prevented from installing. This 
policy setting takes precedence over any other policy setting that allows Windows to 
install a device. 
If you enable this policy setting, Windows is prevented from installing or updating device 
drivers whose device setup class GUIDs appear in the list you create. If you enable this 
policy setting on a remote desktop server, the policy setting affects redirection of the 
specified devices from a remote desktop client to the remote desktop server. 
If you disable or do not configure this policy setting, Windows can install and update 
devices as allowed or prevented by other policy settings. 
The recommended state for this setting is: True (checked).

This policy setting allows you to prevent Windows from retrieving device metadata from 
the Internet. 
The recommended state for this setting is: Enabled. 
Note: This will not prevent the installation of basic hardware drivers, but does prevent 
associated third-party utility software from automatically being installed under the 
context of the SYSTEM account.

Why This Matters
A Windows Print Spooler Remote Code Execution Vulnerability (CVE-2021-36958) 
exists when the Windows Print Spooler service improperly performs privileged file 
operations. An attacker who successfully exploits this vulnerability could run arbitrary 
code with SYSTEM privileges and then install programs; view, change, or delete data; 
or create new accounts with full user rights.

Enabling Windows User Account Control (UAC) for updating existing print drivers can 
help mitigate the PrintNightmare vulnerability (CVE-2021-34527) and other Print 
Spooler attacks. 
Although the Point and Print default driver installation behavior overrides this setting, it 
is important to configure this as a backstop in the event that behavior is reversed.

A BitLocker-protected computer may be vulnerable to Direct Memory Access (DMA) 
attacks when the computer is turned on or is in the Standby power state - this includes 
when the workstation is locked. 
BitLocker with TPM-only authentication lets a computer enter the power-on state without 
any pre-boot authentication. Therefore, an attacker may be able to perform DMA 
attacks. 
This issue is documented in Microsoft Knowledge Base article 2516445: Blocking the 
SBP-2 driver and Thunderbolt controllers to reduce 1394 DMA and Thunderbolt DMA 
threats to BitLocker.

Installation of software should be conducted by an authorized system administrator and 
not a standard user. Allowing automatic third-party software installations under the 
context of the SYSTEM account has potential for allowing unauthorized access via 
backdoors or installation software bugs.

Audit Steps
For Explicitly Not Mapped:
Navigate to the UI Path articulated in the Remediation section and confirm it is set as 
prescribed. This policy setting is backed by the following registry location with a 
REG_DWORD value of 1. 
HKLM\SOFTWARE\Policies\Microsoft\Windows NT\Printers:CopyFilesPolicy

For Explicitly Not Mapped:
Navigate to the UI Path articulated in the Remediation section and confirm it is set as 
prescribed. This policy setting is backed by the following registry location with a 
REG_DWORD value of 0. 
HKLM\Software\Policies\Microsoft\Windows 
NT\Printers\PointAndPrint:UpdatePromptSettings

For Explicitly Not Mapped:
Navigate to the UI Path articulated in the Remediation section and confirm it is set as 
prescribed. This policy setting is backed by the following registry location with a 
REG_DWORD value of 1. 
HKLM\SOFTWARE\Policies\Microsoft\Windows\DeviceInstall\Restrictions:DenyDevic eClassesRetroactive

For Explicitly Not Mapped:
Navigate to the UI Path articulated in the Remediation section and confirm it is set as 
prescribed. This policy setting is backed by the following registry location with a 
REG_DWORD value of 1. 
HKLM\SOFTWARE\Policies\Microsoft\Windows\Device 
Metadata:PreventDeviceMetadataFromNetwork

Remediation
For Explicitly Not Mapped:
To establish the recommended configuration via configuration profiles, set the following 
Settings Catalog path to 
Enabled: Limit Queue-specific files to Color profiles: 
Administrative Templates\Printers\Manage processing of Queue-specific files: 
Manage processing of Queue-specific files

For Explicitly Not Mapped:
To establish the recommended configuration via configuration profiles, set the following 
Settings Catalog path to Enabled: Show warning and elevation prompt. 
Administrative Templates\Printers\Point and Print Restrictions: When updating 
drivers for an existing connection

For Explicitly Not Mapped:
To establish the recommended configuration via configuration profiles, set the following 
Settings Catalog path to Enabled, and check the Also apply to matching devices 
that are already installed. button. 
Administrative Templates\System\Device Installation\Device Installation 
Restrictions\Prevent installation of devices using drivers that match these 
device setup classes

For Explicitly Not Mapped:
To establish the recommended configuration via configuration profiles, set the following 
Settings Catalog path to Enabled. 
Administrative Templates\System\Device Installation\Prevent device metadata 
retrieval from the Internet

Key Takeaways
- A Windows Print Spooler Remote Code Execution Vulnerability (CVE-2021-36958)  exists when the Windows Print Spooler service improperly performs privileged file  operations.
- An attacker who successfully exploits this vulnerability could run arbitrary  code with SYSTEM privileges and then install programs; view, change, or delete data;  or create new accounts with full user rights.
- Enabling Windows User Account Control (UAC) for updating existing print drivers can  help mitigate the PrintNightmare vulnerability (CVE-2021-34527) and other Print  Spooler attacks.
