6.8: Define and Maintain Role-Based Access Control (and related controls)

Overview
This policy setting determines which users can use tools to monitor the performance of 
non-system processes. Typically, you do not need to configure this user right to use the 
Microsoft Management Console (MMC) Performance snap-in. However, you do need 
this user right if System Monitor is configured to collect data using Windows 
Management Instrumentation (WMI). Restricting the Profile single process user right 
prevents intruders from gaining additional information that could be used to mount an 
attack on the system. 
The recommended state for this setting is: *S-1-5-32-544 (Administrators).

This policy setting allows users to use tools to view the performance of different system 
processes, which could be abused to allow attackers to determine a system's active 
processes and provide insight into the potential attack surface of the computer. 
The recommended state for this setting is: *S-1-5-32-544, *S-1-5-80 
(Administrators, NT SERVICE\WdiServiceHost).

This policy setting allows users to shut down Windows Vista-based or newer computers 
from remote locations on the network. Anyone who has been assigned this user right 
can cause a denial of service (DoS) condition, which would make the computer 
unavailable to service user requests. Therefore, it is recommended that only highly 
trusted administrators be assigned this user right. 
The recommended state for this setting is: *S-1-5-32-544 (Administrators).

This policy setting allows one process or service to start another service or process with 
a different security access token, which can be used to modify the security access token 
of that sub-process and result in the escalation of privileges. 
The recommended state for this setting is: *S-1-5-19, *S-1-5-20 (LOCAL SERVICE, 
NETWORK SERVICE). 
Note: This user right is considered a "sensitive privilege" for the purposes of auditing.

Why This Matters
The Profile single process user right presents a moderate vulnerability. An attacker 
with this user right could monitor a computer's performance to help identify critical 
processes that they might wish to attack directly. The attacker may also be able to 
determine what processes run on the computer so that they could identify 
countermeasures that they may need to avoid, such as antivirus software, an intrusiondetection system, or which other users are logged on to a computer.

The Profile system performance user right poses a moderate vulnerability. Attackers 
with this user right could monitor a computer's performance to help identify critical 
processes that they might wish to attack directly. Attackers may also be able to 
determine what processes are active on the computer so that they could identify 
countermeasures that they may need to avoid, such as antivirus software or an intrusion 
detection system.

Any user who can shut down a computer could cause a DoS condition to occur. 
Therefore, this user right should be tightly restricted.

Users with the Replace a process level token privilege are able to start processes as 
other users whose credentials they know. They could use this method to hide their 
unauthorized actions on the computer. (On Windows 2000-based computers, use of the 
Replace a process level token user right also requires the user to have the Adjust 
memory quotas for a process user right that is discussed earlier in this section.)

Audit Steps
For Define and Maintain Role-Based Access Control:
Navigate to the Local Security Policy and confirm it is set as prescribed. 
Security Settings\Local Policies\User Rights Assignment\Profile single 
process

For Define and Maintain Role-Based Access Control:
Navigate to the Local Security Policy and confirm it is set as prescribed. 
Security Settings\Local Policies\User Rights Assignment\Profile system 
performance

For Define and Maintain Role-Based Access Control:
Navigate to the Local Security Policy and confirm it is set as prescribed. 
Security Settings\Local Policies\User Rights Assignment\Force shutdown from a 
remote system

For Define and Maintain Role-Based Access Control:
Navigate to the Local Security Policy and confirm it is set as prescribed. 
Security Settings\Local Policies\User Rights Assignment\Replace a process 
level token

Remediation
For Define and Maintain Role-Based Access Control:
To establish the recommended configuration via configuration profiles, set the following 
Settings Catalog path to *S-1-5-32-544 (Administrators). 
User Rights\Profile single process 
Note: Include only one User or Group per line in the Settings Catalog configuration 
screen.

For Define and Maintain Role-Based Access Control:
To establish the recommended configuration via configuration profiles, set the following 
Settings Catalog path to *S-1-5-32-544, *S-1-5-80 (Administrators, NT 
SERVICE\WdiServiceHost). 
User Rights\Profile System Performance

For Define and Maintain Role-Based Access Control:
To establish the recommended configuration via configuration profiles, set the following 
Settings Catalog path to *S-1-5-32-544 (Administrators). 
User Rights\Remote Shutdown 
Note: Include only one User or Group per line in the Settings Catalog configuration 
screen.

For Define and Maintain Role-Based Access Control:
To establish the recommended configuration via configuration profiles, set the following 
Settings Catalog path to *S-1-5-19, *S-1-5-20 (LOCAL SERVICE, NETWORK 
SERVICE). 
User Rights\Replace Process Level Token

Key Takeaways
- The Profile single process user right presents a moderate vulnerability.
- An attacker  with this user right could monitor a computer's performance to help identify critical  processes that they might wish to attack directly.
- The attacker may also be able to  determine what processes run on the computer so that they could identify  countermeasures that they may need to avoid, such as antivirus software, an intrusiondetection system, or which other users are logged on to a computer.
