16.8: Disable Any Unassociated Accounts

Overview
This policy setting determines whether local accounts that are not password protected 
can be used to log on from locations other than the physical computer console. If you 
enable this policy setting, local accounts that have blank passwords will not be able to 
log on to the network from remote client computers. Such accounts will only be able to 
log on at the keyboard of the computer. 
The recommended state for this setting is: Enabled.

Why This Matters
Blank passwords are a serious threat to computer security and should be forbidden 
through both organizational policy and suitable technical measures. In fact, the default 
settings for Active Directory domains require complex passwords of at least seven 
characters. However, if users with the ability to create new accounts bypass your 
domain-based password policies, they could create accounts with blank passwords. For 
example, a user could build a stand-alone computer, create one or more accounts with 
blank passwords, and then join the computer to the domain. The local accounts with 
blank passwords would still function. Anyone who knows the name of one of these 
unprotected accounts could then use it to log on.

Audit Steps
Navigate to the UI Path articulated in the Remediation section and confirm it is set as 
prescribed. This policy setting is backed by the following registry location with a 
REG_DWORD value of 1. 
HKLM\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\Lsa:LimitBlankPasswordUse

Remediation
To establish the recommended configuration via configuration profiles, set the following 
Settings Catalog path to Enabled: 
Local Policies Security Options\Accounts: Limit local account use of blank 
passwords to console logon only

Key Takeaways
- Blank passwords are a serious threat to computer security and should be forbidden  through both organizational policy and suitable technical measures.
- In fact, the default  settings for Active Directory domains require complex passwords of at least seven  characters.
- However, if users with the ability to create new accounts bypass your  domain-based password policies, they could create accounts with blank passwords.
