8.5: Configure Devices Not To Auto-run Content (and related controls)

Overview
This policy setting sets the default behavior for Autorun commands. Autorun commands 
are generally stored in autorun.inf files. They often launch the installation program or 
other routines. 
The recommended state for this setting is: Enabled: Do not execute any autorun 
commands.

Autoplay starts to read from a drive as soon as you insert media in the drive, which 
causes the setup file for programs or audio media to start immediately. An attacker 
could use this feature to launch a program to damage the computer or data on the 
computer. Autoplay is disabled by default on some removable drive types, such as 
floppy disk and network drives, but not on CD-ROM drives. 
Note: You cannot use this policy setting to enable Autoplay on computer drives in which 
it is disabled by default, such as floppy disk and network drives. 
The recommended state for this setting is: Enabled: All drives.

Why This Matters
Prior to Windows Vista, when media containing an autorun command is inserted, the 
system will automatically execute the program without user intervention. This creates a 
major security concern as code may be executed without user's knowledge. The default 
behavior starting with Windows Vista is to prompt the user whether autorun command is 
to be run. The autorun command is represented as a handler in the Autoplay dialog.

An attacker could use this feature to launch a program to damage a client computer or 
data on the computer.

Audit Steps
For Configure Devices Not To Auto-run Content:
Navigate to the UI Path articulated in the Remediation section and confirm it is set as 
prescribed. This policy setting is backed by the following registry location with a 
REG_DWORD value of 1. 
HKLM\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Policies\Explorer:NoAutorun

For Configure Devices Not To Auto-run Content:
Navigate to the UI Path articulated in the Remediation section and confirm it is set as 
prescribed. This policy setting is backed by the following registry location with a 
REG_DWORD value of 255. 
HKLM\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Policies\Explorer:NoDriveTypeA
utoRun

Remediation
For Configure Devices Not To Auto-run Content:
To establish the recommended configuration via configuration profiles, set the following 
Settings Catalog path to Enabled: Do not execute any autorun commands. 
Administrative Templates\Windows Components\AutoPlay Policies\Set the default 
behavior for AutoRun

For Configure Devices Not To Auto-run Content:
To establish the recommended configuration via configuration profiles, set the following 
Settings Catalog path to Enabled: All drives. 
Administrative Templates\Windows Components\AutoPlay Policies\Turn off 
Autoplay

Key Takeaways
- Prior to Windows Vista, when media containing an autorun command is inserted, the  system will automatically execute the program without user intervention.
- This creates a  major security concern as code may be executed without user's knowledge.
- The default  behavior starting with Windows Vista is to prompt the user whether autorun command is  to be run.
