6.8: Define and Maintain Role-Based Access Control (and related controls)

Overview
This security setting determines which users are prevented from logging on at the 
computer. This policy setting supersedes the Allow log on locally policy setting if an 
account is subject to both policies. 
The recommended state for this setting is to include: *S-1-5-32-546 (Guests). 
Important: If you apply this security policy to the Everyone group, no one will be able to 
log on locally. 
Warning: The help text in Intune associated with this recommendation is for the setting, 
Deny log on as a service and not this setting.

This policy setting determines which accounts will not be able to log on to the computer 
as a batch job. A batch job is not a batch (.bat) file, but rather a batch-queue facility. 
Accounts that use the Task Scheduler to schedule jobs need this user right. 
This user right supersedes the Log on as a batch job user right, which could be used 
to allow accounts to schedule jobs that consume excessive system resources. Such an 
occurrence could cause a DoS condition. Failure to assign this user right to the 
recommended accounts can be a security risk. 
The recommended state for this setting is to include: *S-1-5-32-546 (Guests).

This security setting determines which service accounts are prevented from registering 
a process as a service. This user right supersedes the Log on as a service user right if 
an account is subject to both policies. 
The recommended state for this setting is to include: *S-1-5-32-546 (Guests). 
Note: This security setting does not apply to the System, Local Service, or Network 
Service accounts.

This policy setting determines whether users can log on as Remote Desktop clients. 
After the baseline workstation is joined to a domain environment, there is no need to 
use local accounts to access the workstation from the network. Domain accounts can 
access the workstation for administration and end-user processing. This user right 
supersedes the Allow log on through Remote Desktop Services user right if an 
account is subject to both policies. 
The recommended state for this setting is to include: *S-1-5-32-546 and *S-1-5-113 
(Guests, Local account). 
Caution: Configuring a standalone (non-domain-joined) workstation as described above 
may result in an inability to remotely administer the workstation. 
Caution #2: Configuring a cloud system workstation as described above may result in 
an inability log on to the workstation. In this case, Local Accounts need this ability for 
the log on to succeed. 
Note: The security identifier Local account is not available in Windows 7 and 
Windows 8.0 unless MSKB 2871997 has been installed. 
Note #2: In all versions of Windows prior to Windows 7, Remote Desktop Services 
was known as Terminal Services, so you should substitute the older term if comparing 
against an older OS.

Why This Matters
Any account with the ability to log on locally could be used to log on at the console of 
the computer. If this user right is not restricted to legitimate users who need to log on to 
the console of the computer, unauthorized users might download and run malicious 
software that elevates their privileges.

Accounts that have the Log on as a batch job user right could be used to schedule 
jobs that could consume excessive computer resources and cause a DoS condition.

Accounts that can log on as a service could be used to configure and start new 
unauthorized services, such as a keylogger or other malicious software. The benefit of 
the specified countermeasure is somewhat reduced by the fact that only users with 
administrative privileges can install and configure services, and an attacker who has 
already attained that level of access could configure the service to run with the System 
account.

Any account with the right to log on through Remote Desktop Services could be used to 
log on to the remote console of the computer. If this user right is not restricted to 
legitimate users who need to log on to the console of the computer, unauthorized users 
might download and run malicious software that elevates their privileges.

Audit Steps
For Define and Maintain Role-Based Access Control:
Navigate to the UI Path articulated in the Remediation section and confirm it is set as 
prescribed.

For Define and Maintain Role-Based Access Control:
Navigate to the Local Security Policy and confirm it is set as prescribed. 
Security Settings\Local Policies\User Rights Assignment\Deny log on as a 
batch job

For Define and Maintain Role-Based Access Control:
Navigate to the Local Security Policy and confirm it is set as prescribed. 
Security Settings\Local Policies\User Rights Assignment\Deny log on as a 
service

For Define and Maintain Role-Based Access Control:
Navigate to the Local Security Policy and confirm it is set as prescribed. 
Security Settings\Local Policies\User Rights Assignment\Deny log on through 
Remote Desktop Services

Remediation
For Define and Maintain Role-Based Access Control:
To establish the recommended configuration via configuration profiles, set the following 
Settings Catalog path to *S-1-5-32-546 (Guests). 
User Rights\Deny Local Log On 
Note: Include only one User or Group per line in the Settings Catalog configuration 
screen.

For Define and Maintain Role-Based Access Control:
To establish the recommended configuration via configuration profiles, set the following 
Settings Catalog path to *S-1-5-32-546 (Guests). 
User Rights\Deny Log On As Batch Job

For Define and Maintain Role-Based Access Control:
To establish the recommended configuration via configuration profiles, set the following 
Settings Catalog path to *S-1-5-32-546 (Guests). 
User Rights\Deny Log On As Service Job

For Define and Maintain Role-Based Access Control:
To establish the recommended configuration via configuration profiles, set the following 
Settings Catalog path to *S-1-5-32-546 and *S-1-5-113 (Guests, Local account). 
User Rights\Deny Remote Desktop Services Log On 
Note: Include only one User or Group per line in the Settings Catalog configuration 
screen.

Key Takeaways
- Any account with the ability to log on locally could be used to log on at the console of  the computer.
- If this user right is not restricted to legitimate users who need to log on to  the console of the computer, unauthorized users might download and run malicious  software that elevates their privileges.
- Accounts that have the Log on as a batch job user right could be used to schedule  jobs that could consume excessive computer resources and cause a DoS condition.
