11.3: Use Automated Tools to Verify Standard Device (and related controls)

Overview
Although this "legacy" setting traditionally applied to the use of Internet Connection 
Sharing (ICS) in Windows 2000, Windows XP & Server 2003, this setting now freshly 
applies to the Mobile Hotspot feature in Windows 10 & Server 2016. 
The recommended state for this setting is: Enabled. 
Warning: In order for Application Guard to function correctly, ICS must be enabled. If 
Application Guard is used in the environment, then an exception to this 
recommendation might be needed. To learn more on how to disable portions of ICS 
without breaking Application Guard, please visit: FAQ - Microsoft Defender Application 
Guard | Microsoft Learn.

This setting determines the behavior for inbound connections that do not match an 
inbound firewall rule. 
The recommended state for this setting is: Block.

Why This Matters
Non-administrators should not be able to turn on the Mobile Hotspot feature and open 
their Internet connectivity up to nearby mobile devices.

If the firewall allows all traffic to access the system then an attacker may be more easily 
able to remotely exploit a weakness in a network service.

Audit Steps
For Use Automated Tools to Verify Standard Device:
Navigate to the UI Path articulated in the Remediation section and confirm it is set as 
prescribed. This policy setting is backed by the following registry location with a 
REG_DWORD value of 0. 
HKLM\SOFTWARE\Policies\Microsoft\Windows\Network 
Connections:NC_ShowSharedAccessUI

For Use Automated Tools to Verify Standard Device:
Navigate to the UI Path articulated in the Remediation section and confirm it is set as 
prescribed. This policy setting is backed by the following registry location with a 
REG_DWORD value of 1. 
HKLM\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\SharedAccess\Parameters\FirewallPolicy
\Mdm\PublicProfile:DefaultInboundAction

Remediation
For Use Automated Tools to Verify Standard Device:
To establish the recommended configuration via configuration profiles, set the following 
Settings Catalog path to Enabled. 
Administrative Templates\Network\Network Connections\Prohibit use of Internet 
Connection Sharing on your DNS domain network

For Use Automated Tools to Verify Standard Device:
To establish the recommended configuration via configuration profiles, set the following 
Settings Catalog path to Block: 
Firewall\Enable Public Network Firewall: Default Inbound Action for Public 
Profile

Key Takeaways
- Non-administrators should not be able to turn on the Mobile Hotspot feature and open  their Internet connectivity up to nearby mobile devices.
- If the firewall allows all traffic to access the system then an attacker may be more easily  able to remotely exploit a weakness in a network service.
