0.0: Explicitly Not Mapped (and related controls)

Overview
This policy setting controls how the RPC server runtime handles unauthenticated RPC 
clients connecting to RPC servers. 
This policy setting impacts all RPC applications. In a domain environment this policy 
setting should be used with caution as it can impact a wide range of functionality 
including group policy processing itself. Reverting a change to this policy setting can 
require manual intervention on each affected machine. This policy setting should 
never be applied to a Domain Controller. 
A client will be considered an authenticated client if it uses a named pipe to 
communicate with the server or if it uses RPC Security. RPC Interfaces that have 
specifically requested to be accessible by unauthenticated clients may be exempt from 
this restriction, depending on the selected value for this policy setting. 
-- "None" allows all RPC clients to connect to RPC Servers running on the machine on 
which the policy setting is applied. 
-- "Authenticated" allows only authenticated RPC Clients (per the definition above) to 
connect to RPC Servers running on the machine on which the policy setting is applied. 
Exemptions are granted to interfaces that have requested them. 
-- "Authenticated without exceptions" allows only authenticated RPC Clients (per the 
definition above) to connect to RPC Servers running on the machine on which the policy 
setting is applied. No exceptions are allowed. This value has the potential to cause 
serious problems and is not recommended. 
Note: This policy setting will not be applied until the system is rebooted. 
The recommended state for this setting is: Enabled: Authenticated.

This policy setting manages the behavior for notifying registered antivirus programs. If 
multiple programs are registered, they will all be notified. 
The recommended state for this setting is: Enabled. 
Note: An updated antivirus program must be installed for this policy setting to function 
properly.

This policy setting allows you to configure whether BitLocker requires additional 
authentication each time the computer starts. This policy setting is applied when you 
turn on BitLocker. 
Note: Only one of the additional authentication options can be required at startup, 
otherwise a policy error occurs. 
On a computer with a compatible TPM, four types of authentication methods can be 
used at startup to provide added protection for encrypted data. When the computer 
starts, it can use only the TPM for authentication, or it can also require insertion of a 
USB flash drive containing a startup key, the entry of a 4-digit to 20-digit personal 
identification number (PIN), or both. 
Note #2: If you want to require the use of a startup PIN and a USB flash drive, you must 
configure BitLocker settings using the command-line tool manage-bde instead of the 
BitLocker Drive Encryption setup wizard. 
The recommended state for this setting is: Enabled: Do not allow startup key 
and PIN with TPM.

Why This Matters
Unauthenticated RPC communication can create a security vulnerability.

Antivirus programs that do not perform on-access checks may not be able to scan 
downloaded files.

TPM without use of a PIN will only validate early boot components and does not require 
a user to enter any additional authentication information. If a computer is lost or stolen 
in this configuration, BitLocker will not provide any additional measure of protection 
beyond what is provided by native Windows authentication unless the early boot 
components are tampered with or the encrypted drive is removed from the machine.

Audit Steps
For Explicitly Not Mapped:
Navigate to the UI Path articulated in the Remediation section and confirm it is set as 
prescribed. This policy setting is backed by the following registry location with a 
REG_DWORD value of 1. 
HKLM\SOFTWARE\Policies\Microsoft\Windows NT\Rpc:RestrictRemoteClients

For Explicitly Not Mapped:
Navigate to the UI Path articulated in the Remediation section and confirm it is set as 
prescribed. This policy setting is backed by the following registry location with a 
REG_DWORD value of 3. 
HKU\[USER 
SID]\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Policies\Attachments:ScanWithA
ntiVirus

For Explicitly Not Mapped:
Navigate to the UI Path articulated in the Remediation section and confirm it is set as 
prescribed. This policy setting is backed by the following registry location with a 
REG_DWORD value of 0. 
HKLM\SOFTWARE\Policies\Microsoft\FVE:UseTPMKeyPIN

Remediation
For Explicitly Not Mapped:
To establish the recommended configuration via configuration profiles, set the following 
Settings Catalog path to Enabled: Authenticated. 
Administrative Templates\System\Remote Procedure Call\Restrict 
Unauthenticated RPC clients

For Explicitly Not Mapped:
To establish the recommended configuration via configuration profiles, set the following 
Settings Catalog path to Enabled. 
Administrative Templates\Windows Components\Attachment Manager\Notify 
antivirus programs when opening attachments (User)

For Explicitly Not Mapped:
To establish the recommended configuration via configuration profiles, set the following 
Settings Catalog path to Enabled: Do not allow startup key and PIN with TPM. 
Administrative Templates\Windows Components\BitLocker Drive 
Encryption\Operating System Drives\Require additional authentication at 
startup: Configure TPM startup key and PIN:

Key Takeaways
- Unauthenticated RPC communication can create a security vulnerability.
- Antivirus programs that do not perform on-access checks may not be able to scan  downloaded files.
- TPM without use of a PIN will only validate early boot components and does not require  a user to enter any additional authentication information.
