14.3: Disable Workstation to Workstation Communication (and related controls)

Overview
This setting configures the server-side processing of the Server Message Block version 
1 (SMBv1) protocol. 
The recommended state for this setting is: Disabled.

Windows includes support for Structured Exception Handling Overwrite Protection 
(SEHOP). We recommend enabling this feature to improve the security profile of the 
computer. 
The recommended state for this setting is: Enabled.

Why This Matters
Since September 2016, Microsoft has strongly encouraged that SMBv1 be disabled and 
no longer used on modern networks, as it is a 30 year old design that is much more 
vulnerable to attacks then much newer designs such as SMBv2 and SMBv3. 
More information on this can be found at the following links: 
Stop using SMB1 | Storage at Microsoft 
Disable SMB v1 in Managed Environments with Group Policy – "Stay Safe" Cyber 
Security Blog 
Disabling SMBv1 through Group Policy – Microsoft Security Guidance blog

This feature is designed to block exploits that use the Structured Exception Handler 
(SEH) overwrite technique. This protection mechanism is provided at run-time. 
Therefore, it helps protect applications regardless of whether they have been compiled 
with the latest improvements, such as the /SAFESEH option.

Audit Steps
For Disable Workstation to Workstation Communication:
Navigate to the UI Path articulated in the Remediation section and confirm it is set as 
prescribed. This policy setting is backed by the following registry location with a 
REG_DWORD value of 0. 
HKLM\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\LanmanServer\Parameters:SMB1

For Disable Workstation to Workstation Communication:
Navigate to the UI Path articulated in the Remediation section and confirm it is set as 
prescribed. This policy setting is backed by the following registry location with a 
REG_DWORD value of 0. 
HKLM\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\Session 
Manager\kernel:DisableExceptionChainValidation

Remediation
For Disable Workstation to Workstation Communication:
To establish the recommended configuration via configuration profiles, set the following 
Settings Catalog path to Disabled. 
Administrative Templates\MS Security Guide\Configure SMB v1 server

For Disable Workstation to Workstation Communication:
To establish the recommended configuration via configuration profiles, set the following 
Settings Catalog path to Enabled. 
Administrative Templates\MS Security Guide\Enable Structured Exception 
Handling Overwrite Protection (SEHOP) 
More information is available at MSKB 956607: How to enable Structured Exception 
Handling Overwrite Protection (SEHOP) in Windows operating systems

Key Takeaways
- Since September 2016, Microsoft has strongly encouraged that SMBv1 be disabled and  no longer used on modern networks, as it is a 30 year old design that is much more  vulnerable to attacks then much newer designs such as SMBv2 and SMBv3.
- More information on this can be found at the following links:  Stop using SMB1 | Storage at Microsoft  Disable SMB v1 in Managed Environments with Group Policy – "Stay Safe" Cyber  Security Blog  Disabling SMBv1 through Group Policy – Microsoft Security Guidance blog This feature is designed to block exploits that use the Structured Exception Handler  (SEH) overwrite technique.
- This protection mechanism is provided at run-time.
