3.4: Deploy Automated Operating System Patch (and related controls)

Overview
Remote host allows delegation of non-exportable credentials. When using credential 
delegation, devices provide an exportable version of credentials to the remote host. This 
exposes users to the risk of credential theft from attackers on the remote host. The 
Restricted Admin Mode and Windows Defender Remote Credential Guard features are 
two options to help protect against this risk. 
The recommended state for this setting is: Enabled. 
Note: More detailed information on Windows Defender Remote Credential Guard and 
how it compares to Restricted Admin Mode can be found at this link: Protect Remote 
Desktop credentials with Windows Defender Remote Credential Guard (Windows 10) | 
Microsoft Docs

This policy setting determines when Preview Build or Feature Updates are received. 
Defer Updates This enables devices to defer taking the next Feature Update available 
to your channel for up to 14 days for all the pre-release channels and up to 365 days for 
the Semi-Annual Channel. Or, if the device is updating from the Semi-Annual Channel, 
a version for the device to move to and/or stay on until the policy is updated or the 
device reaches end of service can be specified. Note: If you set both policies, the 
version specified will take precedence and the deferrals will not be in effect. Please see 
the Windows Release Information page for OS version information. 
Pause Updates To prevent Feature Updates from being received on their scheduled 
time, you can temporarily pause Feature Updates. The pause will remain in effect for 35 
days from the specified start date or until the field is cleared (Quality Updates will still be 
offered). 
Note: If the "Allow Diagnostic Data" (formerly "Allow Telemetry") policy is set to 0, this 
policy will have no effect. 
Note #2: Starting with Windows 10 R1607, Microsoft introduced a new Windows 
Update (WU) client behavior called Dual Scan, with an eye to cloud-based update 
management. In some cases, this Dual Scan feature can interfere with Windows 
Updates from Windows Server Update Services (WSUS) and/or manual WU updates. If 
you are using WSUS in your environment, you may need to set the above setting to Not 
Configured or configure the setting Do not allow update deferral policies to cause 
scans against Windows Update (added in the Windows 10 Release 1709 Administrative 
Templates) in order to prevent the Dual Scan feature from interfering. More information 
on Dual Scan is available at these links: 
• 
Demystifying “Dual Scan” – WSUS Product Team Blog 
• 
Improving Dual Scan on 1607 – WSUS Product Team Blog 
Note #3: Prior to Windows 10 R1703, values above 180 days are not recognized by the 
OS. Starting with Windows 10 R1703, the maximum number of days you can defer is 
365 days.

Why This Matters
Restricted Admin Mode was designed to help protect administrator accounts by 
ensuring that reusable credentials are not stored in memory on remote devices that 
could potentially be compromised. Windows Defender Remote Credential Guard helps 
you protect your credentials over a Remote Desktop connection by redirecting Kerberos 
requests back to the device that is requesting the connection. Both features should be 
enabled and supported, as they reduce the chance of credential theft.

In a production environment, it is preferred to only use software and features that are 
publicly available, after they have gone through rigorous testing in beta.

Audit Steps
For Deploy Automated Operating System Patch:
Navigate to the UI Path articulated in the Remediation section and confirm it is set as 
prescribed. This policy setting is backed by the following registry location with a 
REG_DWORD value of 1. 
HKLM\SOFTWARE\Policies\Microsoft\Windows\CredentialsDelegation:AllowProtected
Creds

For Deploy Automated Operating System Patch:
Navigate to the UI Path articulated in the Remediation section and confirm it is set as 
prescribed. This policy setting is backed by the following registry location with a 
REG_DWORD value of 180 or more. 
HKLM\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\PolicyManager\current\device\Update:DeferFeatureUpdat esPeriodInDays

Remediation
For Deploy Automated Operating System Patch:
To establish the recommended configuration via configuration profiles, set the following 
Settings Catalog path to Enabled. 
Administrative Templates\System\Credentials Delegation\Remote host allows 
delegation of non-exportable credentials

For Deploy Automated Operating System Patch:
To establish the recommended configuration via configuration profiles, set the following 
Settings Catalog path to Enabled: 180 or more days. 
Windows Update for Business\Defer Feature Updates Period in Days

Key Takeaways
- Restricted Admin Mode was designed to help protect administrator accounts by  ensuring that reusable credentials are not stored in memory on remote devices that  could potentially be compromised.
- Windows Defender Remote Credential Guard helps  you protect your credentials over a Remote Desktop connection by redirecting Kerberos  requests back to the device that is requesting the connection.
- Both features should be  enabled and supported, as they reduce the chance of credential theft.
