4.7: Manage Default Accounts on Enterprise Assets and (and related controls)

Overview
The built-in local guest account is another well-known name to attackers. It is 
recommended to rename this account to something that does not indicate its purpose. 
Even if you disable this account, which is recommended, ensure that you rename it for 
added security.

For a computer to print to a shared printer, the driver for that shared printer must be 
installed on the local computer. This security setting determines who is allowed to install 
a printer driver as part of connecting to a shared printer. 
The recommended state for this setting is: Enable. 
Note: This setting does not affect the ability to add a local printer. This setting does not 
affect Administrators.

Why This Matters
The Guest account exists on all computers that run the Windows 2000 or newer 
operating systems. If you rename this account, it is slightly more difficult for 
unauthorized persons to guess this privileged user name and password combination.

It may be appropriate in some organizations to allow users to install printer drivers on 
their own workstations. However, in a high security environment, you should allow only 
Administrators, not users, to do this, because printer driver installation may 
unintentionally cause the computer to become less stable. A malicious user could install 
inappropriate printer drivers in a deliberate attempt to damage the computer, or a user 
might accidentally install malicious software that masquerades as a printer driver. It is 
feasible for an attacker to disguise a Trojan horse program as a printer driver. The 
program may appear to users as if they must use it to print, but such a program could 
unleash malicious code on your computer network.

Audit Steps
For Manage Default Accounts on Enterprise Assets and:
Navigate to the UI Path articulated in the Remediation section and confirm it is set as 
prescribed.

For Manage Default Accounts on Enterprise Assets and:
Navigate to the UI Path articulated in the Remediation section and confirm it is set as 
prescribed. This policy setting is backed by the following registry location with a 
REG_DWORD value of 1. 
HKLM\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\Print\Providers\LanMan Print 
Services\Servers:AddPrinterDrivers

Remediation
For Manage Default Accounts on Enterprise Assets and:
To establish the recommended configuration via configuration profiles, set the following 
Settings Catalog path: 
Local Policies Security Options\Accounts: Rename guest account

For Manage Default Accounts on Enterprise Assets and:
To establish the recommended configuration via configuration profiles, set the following 
Settings Catalog path to Enable: 
Local Policies Security Options\Devices: Prevent users from installing 
printer drivers when connecting to shared printers

Key Takeaways
- The Guest account exists on all computers that run the Windows 2000 or newer  operating systems.
- If you rename this account, it is slightly more difficult for  unauthorized persons to guess this privileged user name and password combination.
- It may be appropriate in some organizations to allow users to install printer drivers on  their own workstations.
