6.1: Utilize Three Synchronized Time Sources (and related controls)

Overview
This policy setting specifies whether the Windows NTP Server is enabled. Disabling this 
setting prevents the system from acting as a NTP Server (time source) to service NTP 
requests from other systems (NTP Clients). 
The recommended state for this setting is: Disabled.

This subcategory reports the results of validation tests on credentials submitted for a 
user account logon request. These events occur on the computer that is authoritative for 
the credentials. For domain accounts, the Domain Controller is authoritative, whereas 
for local accounts, the local computer is authoritative. In domain environments, most of 
the Account Logon events occur in the Security log of the Domain Controllers that are 
authoritative for the domain accounts. However, these events can occur on other 
computers in the organization when local accounts are used to log on. Events for this 
subcategory include: 
• 
4774: An account was mapped for logon. 
• 
4775: An account could not be mapped for logon. 
• 
4776: The Domain Controller attempted to validate the credentials for an 
account. 
• 
4777: The Domain Controller failed to validate the credentials for an account. 
The recommended state for this setting is: Success and Failure.

Why This Matters
The configuration of proper time synchronization is critically important in an enterprise 
managed environment both due to the sensitivity of Kerberos authentication timestamps 
and also to ensure accurate security logging. This should be done through a known 
NTP server. Member servers and workstations should not typically be time sources for 
other clients.

Auditing these events may be useful when investigating a security incident.

Audit Steps
For Utilize Three Synchronized Time Sources:
Navigate to the UI Path articulated in the Remediation section and confirm it is set as 
prescribed. This policy setting is backed by the following registry location with a 
REG_DWORD value of 0. 
HKLM\SOFTWARE\Policies\Microsoft\W32Time\TimeProviders\NtpServer:Enabled

For (L1) Ensure 'Account Logon Audit Credential Validation' is set:
Navigate to the UI Path articulated in the Remediation section and confirm it is set as 
prescribed. 
OR 
To audit the system using auditpol.exe, perform the following and confirm it is set as 
prescribed: 
auditpol /get /subcategory:"{0cce923f-69ae-11d9-bed3-505054503030}"

Remediation
For Utilize Three Synchronized Time Sources:
To establish the recommended configuration via configuration profiles, set the following 
Settings Catalog path to Disabled. 
Administrative Templates\System\Windows Time Service\Time Providers\Enable 
Windows NTP Server

For (L1) Ensure 'Account Logon Audit Credential Validation' is set:
To establish the recommended configuration via configuration profiles, set the following 
Settings Catalog path to Success and Failure. 
Auditing\Account Logon Audit Credential Validation

Key Takeaways
- The configuration of proper time synchronization is critically important in an enterprise  managed environment both due to the sensitivity of Kerberos authentication timestamps  and also to ensure accurate security logging.
- This should be done through a known  NTP server.
- Member servers and workstations should not typically be time sources for  other clients.
