9.2: Ensure Only Approved Ports, Protocols and Services (and related controls)

Overview
This policy setting determines the amount of diagnostic and usage data reported to 
Microsoft: 
The recommended state for this setting is: Basic or Security. 
Note: If your organization relies on Windows Update, the minimum recommended 
setting is Required diagnostic data. Because no Windows Update information is 
collected when diagnostic data is off, important information about update failures is not 
sent. Microsoft uses this information to fix the causes of those failures and improve the 
quality of updates. 
Note #2: The Configure diagnostic data opt-in settings user interface group policy can 
be used to prevent end users from changing their data collection settings. 
Note #3: Enhanced diagnostic data setting is not available on Windows 11 and 
Windows Server 2022 and has been replaced with policies that can control the amount 
of optional diagnostic data that is sent. For more information on these settings visit 
Manage diagnostic data using Group Policy and MDM

The Bluetooth service supports discovery and association of remote Bluetooth devices. 
The recommended state for this setting is: Disabled.

Maintains an updated list of computers on the network and supplies this list to 
computers designated as browsers. 
The recommended state for this setting is: Disabled or Not Installed. 
Note: In Windows 8.1 and Windows 10, this service is bundled with the SMB 1.0/CIFS 
File Sharing Support optional feature. As a result, removing that feature (highly 
recommended unless backward compatibility is needed to XP/2003 and older Windows 
OSes - see Stop using SMB1 | Storage at Microsoft) will also remediate this 
recommendation. The feature is not installed by default starting with Windows 10 
R1709.

Windows service for application access to downloaded maps. This service is started ondemand by application accessing downloaded maps.

Why This Matters
Sending any data to a third-party vendor is a security concern and should only be done 
on an as needed basis.

Bluetooth technology has inherent security risks - especially prior to the v2.1 standard. 
Wireless Bluetooth traffic is not well encrypted (if at all), so in a high-security 
environment, it should not be permitted, in spite of the added inconvenience of not 
being able to use Bluetooth devices.

This is a legacy service - its sole purpose is to maintain a list of computers and their 
network shares in the environment (i.e. "Network Neighborhood"). If enabled, it 
generates a lot of unnecessary traffic, including "elections" to see who gets to be the 
"master browser". This noisy traffic could also aid malicious attackers in discovering 
online machines, because the service also allows anyone to "browse" for shared 
resources without any authentication. This service used to be running by default in older 
Windows versions (e.g. Windows XP), but today it only remains for backward 
compatibility for very old software that requires it.

Mapping technologies can unwillingly reveal your location to attackers and other 
software that picks up the information. In addition, automatic downloads of data from 
third-party sources should be minimized when not needed. Therefore, this service 
should not be needed in high security environments.

Audit Steps
For Ensure Only Approved Ports, Protocols and Services:
Navigate to the UI Path articulated in the Remediation section and confirm it is set as 
prescribed. This policy setting is backed by the following registry location with a 
REG_DWORD value of 0 or 1. 
HKLM\SOFTWARE\Policies\Microsoft\Windows\DataCollection:AllowTelemetry_Policy
Manager

For Ensure Only Approved Ports, Protocols and Services:
Navigate to the UI Path articulated in the Remediation section and confirm it is set as 
prescribed. This policy setting is backed by the following registry location with a 
REG_DWORD value of 4. 
HKLM\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\bthserv:Start

For Ensure Only Approved Ports, Protocols and Services:
Navigate to the UI Path articulated in the Remediation section and confirm it is set as 
prescribed. This policy setting is backed by the following registry location with a 
REG_DWORD value of 4 or that the key does not exist. 
HKLM\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\Browser:Start

For Ensure Only Approved Ports, Protocols and Services:
Navigate to the UI Path articulated in the Remediation section and confirm it is set as 
prescribed. This policy setting is backed by the following registry location with a 
REG_DWORD value of 4. 
HKLM\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\MapsBroker:Start

Remediation
For Ensure Only Approved Ports, Protocols and Services:
To establish the recommended configuration via configuration profiles, set the following 
Settings Catalog path to Basic or Security: 
System\Allow Telemetry

For Ensure Only Approved Ports, Protocols and Services:
Remediation of this service is currently not possible through Settings Catalog or a 
custom profile OMA-URI. Instead, it can be scripted and deployed through the Intune 
Scripts or Remediations blade or by other means. 
To establish the recommended configuration via PowerShell, run the following cmdlet: 
Set-Service -Name bthserv -StartupType Disabled

For Ensure Only Approved Ports, Protocols and Services:
To establish the recommended configuration, set the following Custom Configuration 
Policy to 4 or confirm that the service is Not installed: 
Name: <Enter name>

For Ensure Only Approved Ports, Protocols and Services:
Remediation of this service is currently not possible through Settings Catalog or a 
custom profile OMA-URI. Instead, it can be scripted and deployed through the Intune 
Scripts or Remediations blade or by other means. 
To establish the recommended configuration via PowerShell, run the following cmdlet: 
Set-Service -Name MapsBroker -StartupType Disabled

Key Takeaways
- Sending any data to a third-party vendor is a security concern and should only be done  on an as needed basis.
- Bluetooth technology has inherent security risks - especially prior to the v2.
- Wireless Bluetooth traffic is not well encrypted (if at all), so in a high-security  environment, it should not be permitted, in spite of the added inconvenience of not  being able to use Bluetooth devices.
