4.8: Uninstall or Disable Unnecessary Services on (and related controls)

Overview
This policy setting limits the type of memory dumps that can be collected when more 
information is needed to troubleshoot a problem.  
The recommended state for this setting is: Enabled. 
Note: Memory dumps are only sent when the device has been configured to send 
optional diagnostic data. Diagnostic data is limited when recommendation Allow 
Diagnostic Data is set to Enabled: Diagnostic data off (not recommended) or 
Enabled: Send required diagnostic data to send only basic information.

This policy setting allows other users on the network to connect to the computer and is 
required by various network protocols that include Server Message Block (SMB)-based 
protocols, NetBIOS, Common Internet File System (CIFS), and Component Object 
Model Plus (COM+). 
The recommended state for this setting is: *S-1-5-32-544 and *S-1-5-32-555 
(Administrators, Remote Desktop Users). 
Note: If your organization is using Microsoft Defender for Identity (formerly Azure 
Advanced Threat Protection (Azure ATP)), the (organization-named) Defender for 
Identity Directory Service Account (DSA), will also need to be granted the same Access 
from network User Right Assignment. For more information on adding the service 
account please see Make sure the DSA is allowed to access computers from the 
network in Microsoft Defender for Identity | Microsoft Docs.

This policy setting enables or disables networking in the Windows Sandbox. Networking 
is achieved by creating a virtual switch on the host, and connecting the Windows 
Sandbox to it via a virtual Network Interface Card (NIC). 
The recommended state for this setting is: Not allowed. 
Note: The Windows Sandbox feature was first introduced in Windows 10 R1903, and 
allows a temporary "clean install" virtual instance of Windows to be run inside the host, 
for the ostensible purpose of testing applications without making changes to the host.

Why This Matters
Memory dumps can contain sensitive information. Sending this data to a third-party 
vendor is a security concern and should only be done on an as-needed basis.

Users who can connect from their computer to the network can access resources on 
target computers for which they have permission. For example, the Access this 
computer from the network user right is required for users to connect to shared 
printers and folders. If this user right is assigned to the Everyone group, then anyone 
will be able to read the files in those shared folders. However, this situation is unlikely 
for new installations of Windows Server 2003 with Service Pack 1 (SP1), because the 
default share and NTFS permissions in Windows Server 2003 do not include the 
Everyone group. This vulnerability may have a higher level of risk for computers that 
you upgrade from Windows NT 4.0 or Windows 2000, because the default permissions 
for these operating systems are not as restrictive as the default permissions in Windows 
Server 2003.

Disabling network access decreases the attack surface exposed by the Windows 
Sandbox and exposure of untrusted applications to the internal network. 
Note: Per Microsoft, enabling networking in the Windows Sandbox can expose 
untrusted applications to the internal network.

Audit Steps
For Uninstall or Disable Unnecessary Services on:
Navigate to the UI Path articulated in the Remediation section and confirm it is set as 
prescribed. This policy setting is backed by the following registry location with a 
REG_DWORD value of 1. 
HKLM\SOFTWARE\Policies\Microsoft\Windows\DataCollection:LimitDumpCollection

For Log and Alert on Changes to Administrative Group:
Navigate to the Local Security Policy and confirm it is set as prescribed. 
Security Settings\Local Policies\User Rights Assignment\Access this computer 
from the network

For Uninstall or Disable Unnecessary Services on:
1. Navigate to the following registry location and note the WinningProvider GUID. 
This value confirms under which User GUID the policy is set. 
HKLM\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\PolicyManager\current\device\WindowsSandbox:AllowNetw orking_WinningProvider 
2. Navigate to the following registry location and confirm the value is set to 0. 
HKLM\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\PolicyManager\Providers\{GUID}\Default\Device\Windows
Sandbox:AllowNetworking

Remediation
For Uninstall or Disable Unnecessary Services on:
To establish the recommended configuration via configuration profiles, set the following 
Settings Catalog path to Enabled. 
System\Limit Dump Collection

For Log and Alert on Changes to Administrative Group:
To establish the recommended configuration via configuration profiles, set the following 
Settings Catalog path to *S-1-5-32-544 and *S-1-5-32-555 (Administrators, Remote 
Desktop Users). 
User Rights\Access From Network 
Note: Include only one User or Group per line in the Settings Catalog configuration 
screen.

For Uninstall or Disable Unnecessary Services on:
To establish the recommended configuration via configuration profiles, set the following 
Settings Catalog path to Not allowed. 
Windows Sandbox\Allow Networking

Key Takeaways
- Memory dumps can contain sensitive information.
- Sending this data to a third-party  vendor is a security concern and should only be done on an as-needed basis.
- Users who can connect from their computer to the network can access resources on  target computers for which they have permission.
