105.1: (L1) Ensure 'Backup Directory' is set to 'Backup the

Overview
This policy setting configures which directory Windows LAPS will use to back up the 
local admin account password. 
The recommended state for this setting is: Backup the password to Azure AD only. 
Note: Organizations that utilize third-party commercial software to manage unique & 
complex local Administrator passwords on domain members may opt to disregard these 
LAPS recommendations. 
• 
Windows LAPS does not support standalone computers - they must be joined to 
an Active Directory domain or Entra ID (formerly Azure Active Directory). 
• 
Windows LAPS does not support simultaneous storage of the local admin 
password in both directory types. 
• 
If the setting is configured and the managed device is not joined to the configured 
directory type, the local administrator password will not be managed by Windows 
LAPS. 
Important: An organization wishing to use Active Directory to backup the LAPS 
password may make an exception for this recommendation. To implement Active 
Directory backup see the latest on-premises CIS Benchmark for Windows 10/11. When 
backing up with Active Directory there are 2 additional security controls to be 
considered in the benchmark which are not available when using Azure AD for backup. 
These were excluded from the Intune benchmark as they cannot be selected unless 
Active Directory is selected as the backup location.

Why This Matters
Due to the difficulty in managing local Administrator passwords, many organizations 
choose to use the same password on all workstations and/or Member Servers when 
deploying them. This creates a serious attack surface security risk because if an 
attacker manages to compromise one system and learn the password to its local 
Administrator account, then they can leverage that account to instantly gain access to 
all other computers that also use that password for their local Administrator account.

Audit Steps
Navigate to the UI Path articulated in the Remediation section and confirm it is set as 
prescribed. This policy setting is backed by the following registry location with a 
REG_DWORD value of 1. 
HKLM\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Policies\LAPS:BackupDirectory

Remediation
To establish the recommended configuration from Microsoft Intune Admin Center: 
1. Navigate to Endpoint security > Account protection. 
2. Create or edit a LAPS policy of the type Local admin password solution 
(Windows LAPS). 
3. Set Backup Directory to Backup the password to Azure AD only.

Key Takeaways
- Due to the difficulty in managing local Administrator passwords, many organizations  choose to use the same password on all workstations and/or Member Servers when  deploying them.
- This creates a serious attack surface security risk because if an  attacker manages to compromise one system and learn the password to its local  Administrator account, then they can leverage that account to instantly gain access to  all other computers that also use that password for their local Administrator account.
