4.4: Use Unique Passwords

Overview
This policy settings configures post-authentication actions which will be executed after 
detecting an authentication by the LAPS managed account. The Action refers to 
actions to take upon expiry of the grace period before executing the specified postauthentication actions. 
Post-authentication actions: 
• 
Reset password: upon expiry of the grace period, the managed account 
password will be reset. 
• 
Reset the password and logoff the managed account: upon expiry of the 
grace period, the managed account password will be reset and any interactive 
logon sessions using the managed account will terminated. 
• 
Reset the password and reboot the device: upon expiry of the grace 
period, the managed account password will be reset and the managed device will 
be immediately rebooted. 
Warning: After an interactive logon session is terminated, other authenticated sessions 
using the Windows LAPS managed account may still be active. The only way to ensure 
that the previous password is no longer in use is to reboot the OS. 
The recommended state for this setting is: Reset the password and logoff the 
managed account or higher. 
Note: Organizations that utilize third-party commercial software to manage unique & 
complex local Administrator passwords on domain members may opt to disregard these 
LAPS recommendations. 
Note #2: Windows LAPS does not support standalone computers - they must be joined 
to an Active Directory domain or Entra ID (formerly Azure Active Directory).

Why This Matters
Due to the difficulty in managing local Administrator passwords, many organizations 
choose to use the same password on all workstations and/or Member Servers when 
deploying them. This creates a serious attack surface security risk because if an 
attacker manages to compromise one system and learn the password to its local 
Administrator account, then they can leverage that account to instantly gain access to 
all other computers that also use that password for their local Administrator account.

Audit Steps
Navigate to the UI Path articulated in the Remediation section and confirm it is set as 
prescribed. This policy setting is backed by the following registry location with a 
REG_DWORD value of 3 or 5. 
HKLM\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Policies\LAPS:PostAuthenticationActions

Remediation
To establish the recommended configuration from Microsoft Intune Admin Center: 
1. Navigate to Endpoint security > Account protection. 
2. Create or edit a LAPS policy type Local admin password solution (Windows 
LAPS). 
3. Set Post Authentication Actions to Reset the password and logoff 
the managed account (or higher). 
Note: Both Reset the password and logoff the managed account and Reset 
the password and reboot are considered passing states.

Key Takeaways
- Due to the difficulty in managing local Administrator passwords, many organizations  choose to use the same password on all workstations and/or Member Servers when  deploying them.
- This creates a serious attack surface security risk because if an  attacker manages to compromise one system and learn the password to its local  Administrator account, then they can leverage that account to instantly gain access to  all other computers that also use that password for their local Administrator account.
