6.8: Define and Maintain Role-Based Access Control (and related controls)

Overview
This policy setting determines which users and groups can change the time and date on 
the internal clock of the computers in your environment. Users who are assigned this 
user right can affect the appearance of event logs. When a computer's time setting is 
changed, logged events reflect the new time, not the actual time that the events 
occurred. 
The recommended state for this setting is: *S-1-5-32-544 and *S-1-5-19 
(Administrators, LOCAL SERVICE). 
Note: Discrepancies between the time on the local computer and on the Domain 
Controllers in your environment may cause problems for the Kerberos authentication 
protocol, which could make it impossible for users to log on to the domain or obtain 
authorization to access domain resources after they are logged on. Also, problems will 
occur when Group Policy is applied to client computers if the system time is not 
synchronized with the Domain Controllers.

This policy setting determines whether users can create global objects that are available 
to all sessions. Users can still create objects that are specific to their own session if they 
do not have this user right. 
Users who can create global objects could affect processes that run under other users' 
sessions. This capability could lead to a variety of problems, such as application failure 
or data corruption. 
The recommended state for this setting is: *S-1-5-32-544, *S-1-5-19, *S-1-5-20 and 
*S-1-5-6 (Administrators, LOCAL SERVICE, NETWORK SERVICE, SERVICE).

This policy setting allows users to change the size of the pagefile. By making the 
pagefile extremely large or extremely small, an attacker could easily affect the 
performance of a compromised computer. 
The recommended state for this setting is: *S-1-5-32-544 (Administrators).

Why This Matters
Users who can change the time on a computer could cause several problems. For 
example, time stamps on event log entries could be made inaccurate, time stamps on 
files and folders that are created or modified could be incorrect, and computers that 
belong to a domain may not be able to authenticate themselves or users who try to log 
on to the domain from them. Also, because the Kerberos authentication protocol 
requires that the requestor and authenticator have their clocks synchronized within an 
administrator-defined skew period, an attacker who changes a computer's time may 
cause that computer to be unable to obtain or grant Kerberos tickets. 
The risk from these types of events is mitigated on most Domain Controllers, Member 
Servers, and end-user computers because the Windows Time service automatically 
synchronizes time with Domain Controllers in the following ways: 
• 
All client desktop computers and Member Servers use the authenticating Domain 
Controller as their inbound time partner. 
• 
All Domain Controllers in a domain nominate the Primary Domain Controller 
(PDC) Emulator operations master as their inbound time partner. 
• 
All PDC Emulator operations masters follow the hierarchy of domains in the 
selection of their inbound time partner. 
• 
The PDC Emulator operations master at the root of the domain is authoritative for 
the organization. Therefore it is recommended that you configure this computer 
to synchronize with a reliable external time server. 
This vulnerability becomes much more serious if an attacker is able to change the 
system time and then stop the Windows Time service or reconfigure it to synchronize 
with a time server that is not accurate.

Users who can create global objects could affect Windows services and processes that 
run under other user or system accounts. This capability could lead to a variety of 
problems, such as application failure, data corruption and elevation of privilege.

Users who can change the page file size could make it extremely small or move the file 
to a highly fragmented storage volume, which could cause reduced computer 
performance.

Audit Steps
For Define and Maintain Role-Based Access Control:
Navigate to the Local Security Policy and confirm it is set as prescribed. 
Security Settings\Local Policies\User Rights Assignment\Change the system 
time

For Define and Maintain Role-Based Access Control:
Navigate to the Local Security Policy and confirm it is set as prescribed. 
Security Settings\Local Policies\User Rights Assignment\Create global objects

For Define and Maintain Role-Based Access Control:
Navigate to the Local Security Policy and confirm it is set as prescribed. 
Security Settings\Local Policies\User Rights Assignment\Create a pagefile

Remediation
For Define and Maintain Role-Based Access Control:
To establish the recommended configuration via configuration profiles, set the following 
Settings Catalog path to *S-1-5-32-544 and *S-1-5-19 (Administrators, LOCAL 
SERVICE). 
User Rights\Change System Time 
Note: Include only one User or Group per line in the Settings Catalog configuration 
screen.

For Define and Maintain Role-Based Access Control:
To establish the recommended configuration via configuration profiles, set the following 
Settings Catalog path to *S-1-5-32-544, *S-1-5-19, *S-1-5-20 and *S-1-5-6 
(Administrators, LOCAL SERVICE, NETWORK SERVICE, SERVICE). 
User Rights\Create Global Objects 
Note: Include only one User or Group per line in the Settings Catalog configuration 
screen.

For Define and Maintain Role-Based Access Control:
To establish the recommended configuration via configuration profiles, set the following 
Settings Catalog path to *S-1-5-32-544 (Administrators). 
User Rights\Create Page File 
Note: Include only one User or Group per line in the Settings Catalog configuration 
screen.

Key Takeaways
- Users who can change the time on a computer could cause several problems.
- For  example, time stamps on event log entries could be made inaccurate, time stamps on  files and folders that are created or modified could be incorrect, and computers that  belong to a domain may not be able to authenticate themselves or users who try to log  on to the domain from them.
- Also, because the Kerberos authentication protocol  requires that the requestor and authenticator have their clocks synchronized within an  administrator-defined skew period, an attacker who changes a computer's time may  cause that computer to be unable to obtain or grant Kerberos tickets.
