4.10.9.1: .1 (BL) Ensure 'Prevent installation of devices using

Overview
This policy setting allows you to specify a list of device setup class globally unique 
identifiers (GUIDs) for device drivers that Windows is prevented from installing. This 
policy setting takes precedence over any other policy setting that allows Windows to 
install a device. 
If you enable this policy setting, Windows is prevented from installing or updating device 
drivers whose device setup class GUIDs appear in the list you create. If you enable this 
policy setting on a remote desktop server, the policy setting affects redirection of the 
specified devices from a remote desktop client to the remote desktop server. 
If you disable or do not configure this policy setting, Windows can install and update 
devices as allowed or prevented by other policy settings. 
The recommended state for this setting is: Enabled.

Why This Matters
A BitLocker-protected computer may be vulnerable to Direct Memory Access (DMA) 
attacks when the computer is turned on or is in the Standby power state - this includes 
when the workstation is locked. 
BitLocker with TPM-only authentication lets a computer enter the power-on state without 
any pre-boot authentication. Therefore, an attacker may be able to perform DMA 
attacks. 
This issue is documented in Microsoft Knowledge Base article 2516445: Blocking the 
SBP-2 driver and Thunderbolt controllers to reduce 1394 DMA and Thunderbolt DMA 
threats to BitLocker.

Audit Steps
Navigate to the UI Path articulated in the Remediation section and confirm it is set as 
prescribed. This policy setting is backed by the following registry location with a 
REG_DWORD value of 1. 
HKLM\SOFTWARE\Policies\Microsoft\Windows\DeviceInstall\Restrictions:DenyDevic eClasses

Remediation
To establish the recommended configuration via configuration profiles, set the following 
Settings Catalog path to Enabled. 
Administrative Templates\System\Device Installation\Device Installation 
Restrictions\Prevent installation of devices using drivers that match these 
device setup classes

Key Takeaways
- A BitLocker-protected computer may be vulnerable to Direct Memory Access (DMA)  attacks when the computer is turned on or is in the Standby power state - this includes  when the workstation is locked.
- BitLocker with TPM-only authentication lets a computer enter the power-on state without  any pre-boot authentication.
- Therefore, an attacker may be able to perform DMA  attacks.
