16.11: Lock Workstation Sessions After Inactivity (and related controls)

Overview
This policy setting specifies a text message that displays to users when they log on. Set 
the following group policy to a value that is consistent with the security and operational 
requirements of your organization.

This policy setting determines whether packet signing is required by the SMB client 
component. 
Note: When Windows Vista-based computers have this policy setting enabled and they 
connect to file or print shares on remote servers, it is important that the setting is 
synchronized with its companion setting, Microsoft network server: Digitally sign 
communications (always), on those servers. For more information about these 
settings, see the "Microsoft network client and server: Digitally sign communications 
(four related settings)" section in Chapter 5 of the Threats and Countermeasures guide. 
The recommended state for this setting is: Enabled.

Why This Matters
Displaying a warning message before logon may help prevent an attack by warning the 
attacker about the consequences of their misconduct before it happens. It may also help 
to reinforce corporate policy by notifying employees of the appropriate policy during the 
logon process. This text is often used for legal reasons—for example, to warn users 
about the ramifications of misusing company information or to warn them that their 
actions may be audited. 
Note: Any warning that you display should first be approved by your organization's legal 
and human resources representatives.

Session hijacking uses tools that allow attackers who have access to the same network 
as the client or server to interrupt, end, or steal a session in progress. Attackers can 
potentially intercept and modify unsigned SMB packets and then modify the traffic and 
forward it so that the server might perform undesirable actions. Alternatively, the 
attacker could pose as the server or client after legitimate authentication and gain 
unauthorized access to data. 
SMB is the resource sharing protocol that is supported by many Windows operating 
systems. It is the basis of NetBIOS and many other protocols. SMB signatures 
authenticate both users and the servers that host the data. If either side fails the 
authentication process, data transmission will not take place.

Audit Steps
For Lock Workstation Sessions After Inactivity:
Navigate to the UI Path articulated in the Remediation section and confirm it is set as 
prescribed. This policy setting is backed by the following registry location with a REG_SZ 
value of text. 
HKLM\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Policies\System:LegalNoticeTex t

For Lock Workstation Sessions After Inactivity:
Navigate to the UI Path articulated in the Remediation section and confirm it is set as 
prescribed. This policy setting is backed by the following registry location with a 
REG_DWORD value of 1. 
HKLM\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\LanmanWorkstation\Parameters:RequireSe curitySignature

Remediation
For Lock Workstation Sessions After Inactivity:
To establish the recommended configuration via configuration profiles, set the following 
Settings Catalog path to a value that is consistent with the security and operational 
requirements of your organization: 
Local Policies Security Options\Interactive logon: Message text for users 
attempting to log on

For Lock Workstation Sessions After Inactivity:
To establish the recommended configuration via configuration profiles, set the following 
Settings Catalog path to Enabled: 
Local Policies Security Options\Microsoft network client: Digitally sign 
communications (always)

Key Takeaways
- Displaying a warning message before logon may help prevent an attack by warning the  attacker about the consequences of their misconduct before it happens.
- It may also help  to reinforce corporate policy by notifying employees of the appropriate policy during the  logon process.
- This text is often used for legal reasons—for example, to warn users  about the ramifications of misusing company information or to warn them that their  actions may be audited.
