0.0: Explicitly Not Mapped (and related controls)

Overview
This policy setting controls whether the Connected User Experience and Telemetry 
service can automatically use an authenticated proxy to send data back to Microsoft. 
The recommended state for this setting is: Enable.

This policy setting lets you prevent apps and features from working with files on 
OneDrive using the Next Generation Sync Client. 
The recommended state for this setting is: Sync Disabled.

Minimum PIN length configures the minimum number of characters required for the PIN. 
The lowest number you can configure for this policy setting is 4. The largest number you 
can configure must be less than the number configured in the Maximum PIN length 
policy setting or the number 127, whichever is the lowest. 
The recommended state for this setting is: 6 more character(s).

This policy setting determines whether Windows Ink items are allowed above the lock 
screen. 
The recommended state for this setting is: Ink workspace is enabled (feature is 
turned on), but the user can't access it above the lock screen OR 
Access to ink workspace is disabled. The feature is turned off.

This policy setting configures the Windows LAPS Password Settings policy for 
password age. 
Because attackers can crack passwords, the more frequently the password is changed 
the less opportunity an attacker has to use a cracked password. 
The recommended state for this setting is: Configured: 30 or fewer. 
Note: Organizations that utilize third-party commercial software to manage unique & 
complex local Administrator passwords on domain members may opt to disregard these 
LAPS recommendations. 
Note #2: Windows LAPS does not support standalone computers - they must be joined 
to an Active Directory domain or Entra ID (formerly Azure Active Directory).

Why This Matters
Sending any data to a third-party vendor is a security concern and should only be done 
on an as needed basis.

Enabling this setting prevents users from accidentally (or intentionally) uploading 
confidential or sensitive corporate information to the OneDrive cloud service using the 
Next Generation Sync Client. 
Note: This security concern applies to any cloud-based file storage application installed 
on a workstation, not just the one supplied with Windows.

Windows Hello for Business utilizes key-based or certificate-based authentication and 
makes credential theft extremely difficult. 
When backed with a TPM chip multiple physical security mechanisms are added in 
order to make it tamper resistant.

Allowing any apps to be accessed while system is locked is not recommended. If this 
feature is permitted, it should only be accessible once a user authenticates with the 
proper credentials.

Due to the difficulty in managing local Administrator passwords, many organizations 
choose to use the same password on all workstations and/or Member Servers when 
deploying them. This creates a serious attack surface security risk because if an 
attacker manages to compromise one system and learn the password to its local 
Administrator account, then they can leverage that account to instantly gain access to 
all other computers that also use that password for their local Administrator account.

Audit Steps
For Explicitly Not Mapped:
1. Navigate to the following registry location and note the WinningProvider GUID. 
This value confirms under which User GUID the policy is set. 
HKLM\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\PolicyManager\current\device\System:DisableEnterprise
AuthProxy_WinningProvider 
2. Navigate to the following registry location and confirm the value is set to 1. 
HKLM\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\PolicyManager\Providers\{GUID}\Default\Device\System:
DisableEnterpriseAuthProxy

For Explicitly Not Mapped:
Navigate to the UI Path articulated in the Remediation section and confirm it is set as 
prescribed. This policy setting is backed by the following registry location with a 
REG_DWORD value of 1. 
HKLM\SOFTWARE\Policies\Microsoft\Windows\OneDrive:DisableFileSyncNGSC

For Explicitly Not Mapped:
Navigate to the UI Path articulated in the Remediation section and confirm it is set as 
prescribed. This policy setting is backed by the following registry location with a 
REG_DWORD value of 6 (or higher). 
HKLM\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Policies\PassportForWork\<TenantID>\Device\Policies\PINComplexity:MinimumPINLength

For Explicitly Not Mapped:
Navigate to the UI Path articulated in the Remediation section and confirm it is set as 
prescribed. This group policy setting is backed by the following registry location with a 
REG_DWORD value of 0 or 1. 
HKLM\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\PolicyManager\current\device\WindowsInkWorkspace:Allo wWindowsInkWorkspace

For Explicitly Not Mapped:
Navigate to the UI Path articulated in the Remediation section and confirm it is set as 
prescribed. This policy setting is backed by the following registry location with a 
REG_DWORD value of 30. 
HKLM\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Policies\LAPS:PasswordAgeDays

Remediation
For Explicitly Not Mapped:
To establish the recommended configuration via configuration profiles, set the following 
Settings Catalog path to Enable. 
System\Disable Enterprise Auth Proxy

For Explicitly Not Mapped:
To establish the recommended configuration via configuration profiles, set the following 
Settings Catalog path to Sync Disabled: 
System\Disable One Drive File Sync

For Explicitly Not Mapped:
To establish the recommended configuration via configuration profiles, set the following 
Settings Catalog path to 6 (or more character(s)): 
Windows Hello For Business\Minimum PIN Length

For Explicitly Not Mapped:
To establish the recommended configuration via configuration profiles, set the following 
Settings Catalog path to Ink workspace is enabled (feature is turned on), 
but the user can't access it above the lock screen OR Access to ink 
workspace is disabled. The feature is turned off. 
Windows Ink Workspace\Allow Windows Ink Workspace

For Explicitly Not Mapped:
To establish the recommended configuration from Microsoft Intune Admin Center: 
1. Navigate to Endpoint security > Account protection. 
2. Create or edit a LAPS policy type Local admin password solution (Windows 
LAPS). 
3. Set Password Age Days to Configured: 30 (or fewer)

Key Takeaways
- Sending any data to a third-party vendor is a security concern and should only be done  on an as needed basis.
- Enabling this setting prevents users from accidentally (or intentionally) uploading  confidential or sensitive corporate information to the OneDrive cloud service using the  Next Generation Sync Client.
- Note: This security concern applies to any cloud-based file storage application installed  on a workstation, not just the one supplied with Windows.
