3.4: Deploy Automated Operating System Patch (and related controls)

Overview
This policy setting manages which updates that are received prior to the update being 
released. 
Dev Channel: Ideal for highly technical users. Insiders in the Dev Channel will receive 
builds from our active development branch that is earliest in a development cycle. 
These builds are not matched to a specific Windows 10 release. 
Beta Channel: Ideal for feature explorers who want to see upcoming Windows 10 
features. Your feedback will be especially important here as it will help our engineers 
ensure key issues are fixed before a major release. 
Release Preview Channel (default): Insiders in the Release Preview Channel will 
have access to the upcoming release of Windows 10 prior to it being released to the 
world. These builds are supported by Microsoft. The Release Preview Channel is where 
we recommend companies preview and validate upcoming Windows 10 releases before 
broad deployment within their organization. 
The recommended state for this setting is: Disable Preview builds. 
Note: Preview Build enrollment requires a telemetry level setting of 2 or higher and your 
domain registered on insider.windows.com. For additional information on Preview 
Builds, see: Managing preview builds across your organization - Windows Insider 
Program | Microsoft Learn.

This policy removes access to "Pause updates" feature. 
The recommended state for this setting is: Block.

Why This Matters
It can be risky for experimental features to be allowed in an enterprise managed 
environment because this can introduce bugs and security holes into systems, making it 
easier for an attacker to gain access. It is generally preferred to only use productionready builds.

In order to ensure security and system updates are applied, system administrators 
should control when updates are applied to systems.

Audit Steps
For Deploy Automated Operating System Patch:
Navigate to the UI Path articulated in the Remediation section and confirm it is set as 
prescribed. This policy setting is backed by the following registry location with a 
REG_DWORD value of 0. 
HKLM\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\PolicyManager\current\device\Update:ManagePreviewBuil ds

For Deploy Automated Operating System Patch:
Navigate to the UI Path articulated in the Remediation section and confirm it is set as 
prescribed. This policy setting is backed by the following registry location with a 
REG_DWORD value of 1. 
HKLM\SOFTWARE\Policies\Microsoft\Windows\WindowsUpdate:SetDisablePauseUXAcces s

Remediation
For Deploy Automated Operating System Patch:
To establish the recommended configuration via configuration profiles, set the following 
Settings Catalog path to Disable Preview builds. 
Windows Update For Business\Manage preview builds

For Deploy Automated Operating System Patch:
To establish the recommended configuration via GP, set the following UI path to Block: 
Windows Update For Business\Block "Pause Updates" ability

Key Takeaways
- It can be risky for experimental features to be allowed in an enterprise managed  environment because this can introduce bugs and security holes into systems, making it  easier for an attacker to gain access.
- It is generally preferred to only use productionready builds.
- In order to ensure security and system updates are applied, system administrators  should control when updates are applied to systems.
