12.5: Configure Monitoring Systems to Record Network (and related controls)

Overview
This policy setting determines which behaviors are allowed by servers for applications 
using the NTLM Security Support Provider (SSP). The SSP Interface (SSPI) is used by 
applications that need authentication services. The setting does not modify how the 
authentication sequence works but instead require certain behaviors in applications that 
use the SSPI. 
The recommended state for this setting is: Require NTLM and 128-bit encryption. 
Note: These values are dependent on the Network security: LAN Manager 
Authentication Level security setting value.

This policy setting allows the auditing of incoming NTLM traffic. Events for this setting 
are recorded in the operational event log (e.g. Applications and Services 
Log\Microsoft\Windows\NTLM). 
The recommended state for this setting is: Enable auditing for all accounts.

Why This Matters
You can enable all of the options for this policy setting to help protect network traffic that 
uses the NTLM Security Support Provider (NTLM SSP) from being exposed or 
tampered with by an attacker who has gained access to the same network. That is, 
these options help protect against man-in-the-middle attacks.

Auditing and monitoring NTLM traffic can assist in identifying systems using this 
outdated authentication protocol, so they can be remediated to using a more secure 
protocol, such as Kerberos. The log information gathered can also assist in forensic 
investigations after a malicious attack. 
NTLM and NTLMv2 authentication is vulnerable to various attacks, including SMB relay, 
man-in-the-middle, and brute force attacks. Reducing and eliminating NTLM 
authentication in an environment reduces the risk of an attacker gaining access to 
systems on the network.

Audit Steps
For Configure Monitoring Systems to Record Network:
Navigate to the UI Path articulated in the Remediation section and confirm it is set as 
prescribed. This policy setting is backed by the following registry location with a 
REG_DWORD value of 537395200. 
HKLM\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\Lsa\MSV1_0:NTLMMinServerSec

For Configure Monitoring Systems to Record Network:
Navigate to the UI Path articulated in the Remediation section and confirm it is set as 
prescribed. This policy setting is backed by the following registry location with a 
REG_DWORD value of 2. 
HKLM\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\Lsa\MSV1_0:AuditReceivingNTLMTraffic

Remediation
For Configure Monitoring Systems to Record Network:
To establish the recommended configuration via configuration profiles, set the following 
Settings Catalog path to Require NTLM and 128-bit encryption: 
Local Policies Security Options\Network security: Minimum session security 
for NTLM SSP based (including secure RPC) servers

For Configure Monitoring Systems to Record Network:
To establish the recommended configuration via configuration profiles, set the following 
Settings Catalog path to Enable auditing for all accounts: 
Local Policies Security Options\Network security: Restrict NTLM: Audit 
Incoming NTLM Traffic

Key Takeaways
- You can enable all of the options for this policy setting to help protect network traffic that  uses the NTLM Security Support Provider (NTLM SSP) from being exposed or  tampered with by an attacker who has gained access to the same network.
- That is,  these options help protect against man-in-the-middle attacks.
- Auditing and monitoring NTLM traffic can assist in identifying systems using this  outdated authentication protocol, so they can be remediated to using a more secure  protocol, such as Kerberos.
