4.11.5: Attachment Manager

Overview
This policy setting allows you to manage whether Windows marks file attachments with 
information about their zone of origin (such as restricted, Internet, intranet, local). This 
requires NTFS in order to function correctly, and will fail without notice on FAT32. By 
not preserving the zone information, Windows cannot make proper risk assessments. 
The recommended state for this setting is: Disabled. 
Note: The Attachment Manager feature warns users when opening or executing files 
which are marked as being from an untrusted source, unless/until the file's zone 
information has been removed via the "Unblock" button on the file's properties or via a 
separate tool such as Microsoft Sysinternals Streams.

Why This Matters
A file that is downloaded from a computer in the Internet or Restricted Sites zone may 
be moved to a location that makes it appear safe, like an intranet file share, and 
executed by an unsuspecting user. The Attachment Manager feature will warn users 
when opening or executing files which are marked as being from an untrusted source, 
unless/until the file's zone information has been removed.

Audit Steps
Navigate to the UI Path articulated in the Remediation section and confirm it is set as 
prescribed. This policy setting is backed by the following registry location with a 
REG_DWORD value of 2. 
HKU\[USER 
SID]\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Policies\Attachments:SaveZoneI
nformation

Remediation
To establish the recommended configuration via configuration profiles, set the following 
Settings Catalog path to Disabled. 
Administrative Templates\Windows Components\Attachment Manager\Do not 
preserve zone information in file attachments (User)

Key Takeaways
- A file that is downloaded from a computer in the Internet or Restricted Sites zone may  be moved to a location that makes it appear safe, like an intranet file share, and  executed by an unsuspecting user.
- The Attachment Manager feature will warn users  when opening or executing files which are marked as being from an untrusted source,  unless/until the file's zone information has been removed.
