4.6.4: DNS Client

Overview
Link-Local Multicast Name Resolution (LLMNR) is a secondary name resolution 
protocol. With LLMNR, queries are sent using multicast over a local network link on a 
single subnet from a client computer to another client computer on the same subnet that 
also has LLMNR enabled. LLMNR does not require a DNS server or DNS client 
configuration and provides name resolution in scenarios in which conventional DNS 
name resolution is not possible. 
The recommended state for this setting is: Enabled.

Why This Matters
An attacker can listen on a network for these LLMNR (UDP/5355) or NBT-NS 
(UDP/137) broadcasts and respond to them, tricking the host into thinking that it knows 
the location of the requested system. 
Note: To completely mitigate local name resolution poisoning, in addition to this setting, 
the properties of each installed NIC should also be set to Disable NetBIOS over 
TCP/IP (on the WINS tab in the NIC properties). Unfortunately, there is no global setting 
to achieve this that automatically applies to all NICs - it is a per-NIC setting that varies 
with different NIC hardware installations.

Audit Steps
Navigate to the UI Path articulated in the Remediation section and confirm it is set as 
prescribed. This policy setting is backed by the following registry location with a 
REG_DWORD value of 0. 
HKLM\SOFTWARE\Policies\Microsoft\Windows NT\DNSClient:EnableMulticast

Remediation
To establish the recommended configuration via configuration profiles, set the following 
Settings Catalog path to Enabled. 
Administrative Templates\Network\DNS Client\Turn off multicast name 
resolution

Key Takeaways
- An attacker can listen on a network for these LLMNR (UDP/5355) or NBT-NS  (UDP/137) broadcasts and respond to them, tricking the host into thinking that it knows  the location of the requested system.
- Note: To completely mitigate local name resolution poisoning, in addition to this setting,  the properties of each installed NIC should also be set to Disable NetBIOS over  TCP/IP (on the WINS tab in the NIC properties).
- Unfortunately, there is no global setting  to achieve this that automatically applies to all NICs - it is a per-NIC setting that varies  with different NIC hardware installations.
