16.2: Configure Centralized Point of Authentication (and related controls)

Overview
This security setting determines the period of time (in days) that a password must be 
used before the user can change it. You can set a value between 1 and 998 days, or 
you can allow changes immediately by setting the number of days to 0. 
The recommended state for this setting is: 1 or more day(s)).

This policy controls whether a Trusted Platform Module (TPM) is required to provision 
Windows Hello for Business. 
• 
If you enable this policy setting, only devices with a usable TPM provision 
Windows Hello for Business. 
• 
If you disable or don't configure this policy setting, the TPM is still preferred, but 
all devices provision Windows Hello for Business using software if the TPM is 
non-functional or unavailable. 
The recommended state for this setting is: true.

Why This Matters
Users may have favorite passwords that they like to use because they are easy to 
remember and they believe that their password choice is secure from compromise. 
Unfortunately, passwords are compromised and if an attacker is targeting a specific 
individual's user account, with foreknowledge of data about that user, reuse of old 
passwords can cause a security breach. To address password reuse a combination of 
security settings is required. Using this policy setting with the Enforce password history 
setting prevents the easy reuse of old passwords. For example, if you configure the 
Enforce password history setting to ensure that users cannot reuse any of their last 12 
passwords, they could change their password 13 times in a few minutes and reuse the 
password they started with, unless you also configure the Minimum password age 
setting to a number that is greater than 0. You must configure this policy setting to a 
number that is greater than 0 for the Enforce password history setting to be effective.

Windows Hello for Business utilizes key-based or certificate-based authentication and 
makes credential theft extremely difficult. 
When backed with a TPM chip multiple physical security mechanisms are added in 
order to make it tamper resistant.

Audit Steps
For Configure Centralized Point of Authentication:
1. Navigate to the following registry location and note the WinningProvider GUID. 
This value confirms under which User GUID the policy is set. 
HKLM\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\PolicyManager\current\device\DeviceLock:MinimumPasswo rdAge_WinningProvider 
2. Navigate to the following registry location and confirm the value is set to 0. 
HKLM\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\PolicyManager\Providers\{GUID}\Default\Device\DeviceL
ock:MinimumPasswordAge

For Configure Centralized Point of Authentication:
Navigate to the UI Path articulated in the Remediation section and confirm it is set as 
prescribed. This policy setting is backed by the following registry location with a 
REG_DWORD value of 1. 
HKLM\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Policies\PassportForWork\<TenantID>\Device\Policies:RequireSecurityDevice

Remediation
For Configure Centralized Point of Authentication:
To establish the recommended configuration via configuration profiles, set the following 
Settings Catalog path to 1 (or more day(s)): 
Device Lock\Minimum Password Age

For Configure Centralized Point of Authentication:
To establish the recommended configuration via configuration profiles, set the following 
Settings Catalog path to true: 
Windows Hello For Business\Require Security Device

Key Takeaways
- Users may have favorite passwords that they like to use because they are easy to  remember and they believe that their password choice is secure from compromise.
- Unfortunately, passwords are compromised and if an attacker is targeting a specific  individual's user account, with foreknowledge of data about that user, reuse of old  passwords can cause a security breach.
- To address password reuse a combination of  security settings is required.
